Rep. Beatty and Counsel Applaud Judge Cooper’s Ruling Blocking Kennedy Center Demolition | Washington Litigation Group

WASHINGTON, D.C., September 17, 2026 — Today, Judge Christopher R. Cooper issued a ruling in the ongoing Kennedy Center case that effectively prevents Donald Trump from demolishing the Kennedy Center without notice. Under Judge Cooper’s order, should the Board undertake “any changes to the scope of the project plans […] including but not limited to any ‘demolition’ of the Center’s main building,” they must provide 30 days’ advance warning. Judge Cooper additionally ordered discovery into the Board’s actions related to a potential demolition and required the Board to update the Court by September 23 regarding the latest efforts to shutter the Center.
Following this ruling in Congresswoman Joyce Beatty’s (D-OH-03) favor, she and her counsel issued the following statements:
“It is simply outrageous that we have gotten to the point of consistent judicial intervention to protect this historic institution from getting bulldozed by the President,” said Rep. Beatty. “I will continue to fight for the rule of law and defend this memorial on behalf of the American people.”
“We are grateful Judge Cooper is taking these escalating threats to the Kennedy Center seriously,” said Rep. Beatty’s counsel, Amb. Norm Eisen (ret.) of Democracy Defenders Action and Nathaniel Zelinsky of Washington Litigation Group. “Further defiance by the Trump administration would precipitate this into a full-blown constitutional crisis of the president’s own making. We are already on the precipice. Fortunately, the court and the nation are watching.”
Yesterday, Rep. Beatty filed an emergency motion before a federal district court to enforce compliance with the court’s order following the Kennedy Center’s unlawful closure. The building is currently inaccessible to the public during normal operating hours today, despite a federal court order barring Donald Trump and his handpicked board from shutting down the Kennedy Center. Under Judge Cooper’s order, Defendants must provide information regarding the closure by September 23.
Rep. Beatty, an ex officio trustee of the Kennedy Center, is represented by Nathaniel Zelinsky, Kyle Freeny, and Alex Kristofcak of Washington Litigation Group, and Norm Eisen, Steve Jonas, David W. Ogden, and Joshua Kolb of Democracy Defenders Action.
To request an interview or for questions, please contact Teresa Mozur with Democracy Defenders Action at [email protected] and Xochitl Hinojosa and Josh Schwerin for Washington Litigation Group at [email protected].
# # #
Democracy Defenders Action brings together a nonpartisan team to work with national, state, and local allies across the country to defend in real time the foundations of our democracy.
Washington Litigation Group is a nonpartisan team of attorneys dedicated to defending individuals and institutions that have been unlawfully targeted for exercising their legal rights and to fighting against governmental overreach.