<!-- page 1 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC             Document 45       Filed 05/29/26      Page 1 of 42




                             UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                             FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

 DC PRESERVATION LEAGUE et al.,

                        Plaintiffs,

                        v.                          Case No. 26-cv-981 (CRC)

 BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE JOHN
 F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE
 PERFORMING ARTS et al.,

                        Defendants.

                                      MEMORANDUM OPINION

       The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts is an iconic landmark in

Washington, D.C. The Modernist building sits on a seventeen-acre campus overlooking the

Potomac River, nestled between Rock Creek Parkway and a tangle of intersecting highways at

the edge of Foggy Bottom. It was designed by American architect Edward Durell Stone and, due

to its association with the slain president and notable architectural pedigree, determined eligible

for inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places in 2012.

       For years, however, the Kennedy Center has needed serious repairs. Last summer,

Congress appropriated roughly $257 million to cover “necessary expenses for capital repair,

restoration, maintenance backlog, and security structures of the building and site of” the

Kennedy Center. See One Big Beautiful Bill Act (“OBBBA”), Pub. L. No. 119-21, § 60025, 139

Stat. 72, 157 (2025). Plans for the work proceeded apace until February 1 of this year, when the

Chairman of the Center’s Board of Trustees—who also happens to be President of the United

States—announced on Truth Social that the Center would temporarily close for “Construction,

Revitalization, and Complete Rebuilding.” Compl. ¶ 52.

---

<!-- page 2 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45        Filed 05/29/26       Page 2 of 42




       In light of the abrupt demolition of the East Wing of the White House only three months

earlier, President Trump’s announcement sounded alarm bells for many, including a group of

historic preservationists, architects, and historians who have filed suit to challenge the work

planned for the Kennedy Center over the next few years. As their opening salvo, the Plaintiffs

(hereinafter referred to collectively as “DC Preservation League” or “the League”) moved for a

preliminary injunction to prevent the Defendants, including the Kennedy Center Board and

various federal agencies, from carrying out the planned work “until they have completed all

required [planning and environmental] reviews, secured all necessary approvals and permits, and

been expressly authorized by Congress to proceed.” Mot. for Prelim. Inj. at 2.

       At this early juncture, the Court concludes that the DC Preservation League has not

established that a preliminary injunction is warranted because it has not shown a likelihood of

success on its myriad Administrative Procedure Act (“APA”), ultra vires, and mandamus claims.

Sworn testimony in this case by the Kennedy Center’s recently-installed Executive Director

indicates that the Center will not in fact be demolished or rebuilt—at least as things stand now.

Instead, it is slated to undergo a substantial renovation, which, if the Center were a federal

agency or if the project were to affect the fundamental footprint of the campus, would trigger a

slate of planning, historic preservation, and environmental review obligations. Yet the Court is

bound by the D.C. Circuit’s ruling that the Smithsonian Institution, the Kennedy Center’s parent

entity, does not qualify as an agency for relevant statutory purposes. See Dong v. Smithsonian

Inst., 125 F.3d 877, 883 (D.C. Cir. 1997). And DC Preservation League has not established that

the currently-contemplated version of the renovation project goes so clearly beyond the Kennedy

Center’s statutory authority or so clearly neglects applicable statutory obligations to satisfy the




                                                  2

---

<!-- page 3 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC            Document 45        Filed 05/29/26       Page 3 of 42




stringent standards for ultra vires or mandamus relief. The League’s uphill battle is made

steeper by the burden of persuasion it bears at the preliminary injunction stage.

       The Court nevertheless remains circumspect about the possibility that the Kennedy

Center renovation will encompass more than its Executive Director has promised, especially

given the paucity of concrete details as to the project’s scope. If the work is, say, more

transformative than present testimony suggests or requires permits that the Center has yet to

acknowledge or secure, the Court’s legal analysis might look substantially different. In other

words, this preliminary ruling may not be the “final word in this case.” Beatty v. Trump, No. 25-

cv-4480 (CRC), 2026 WL 712814, at *2 (D.D.C. Mar. 14, 2026).

       Given the lingering factual uncertainties, the Court will direct the parties to confer and

file a joint status report within seven days of this ruling that proposes next steps in the case,

including the possibility of periodic status reports to elucidate the scope and timing of the

Kennedy Center renovation project.

 I.    Background

       A. Regulatory Background

       Washington, D.C. has been a carefully planned city since it became the seat of the United

States government in 1790. See, e.g., Nat’l Cap. Planning Comm’n, Planning History,

https://www.ncpc.gov/about/history/ [https://perma.cc/FU8M-PBUM] (last visited May 21,

2026). In the early twentieth century, Congress established several federal planning agencies to

ensure that the District grew in a coordinated manner, under centralized oversight. Today,

various intersecting statutory regimes continue to govern the city’s growth and development.

       Originally enacted in 1912, 40 U.S.C. § 8106 is the perhaps the most straightforward of

Congress’s planning directives: “A building or structure shall not be erected on any reservation,



                                                   3

---

<!-- page 4 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45        Filed 05/29/26      Page 4 of 42




park, or public grounds of the Federal Government in the District of Columbia” without

Congress’s “express” authorization.

       Congress has also established the Commission of Fine Arts (“CFA”), which is

responsible for advising on the location and design of “statues, fountains, and monuments” in the

public spaces of D.C., see 40 U.S.C. § 9102(a), and the National Capital Planning Commission

(“NCPC”), which is the “central federal planning agency for the Federal Government” in the

capital and “preserve[s] [its] important historical and natural features” through consultation

and/or approval of various federal projects, 40 U.S.C. §§ 8711(a), 8722.

       The National Historic Preservation Act (“NHPA”) establishes another framework for

promoting the “preservation of historic property” owned or controlled by federal agencies. See

54 U.S.C. § 306101(a)(1). The Act requires agency heads to “take into account the effect of”

any of their “undertakings” (i.e. federal or federally-assisted projects) on “any historic property.”

54 U.S.C. § 306108. In what is known as the “Section 106” review process, see generally 36

C.F.R. pt. 800, agency officials must consult with the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation

(“ACHP”) well before a project begins in order to mitigate the potential adverse effects it may

have on historically-significant properties.

       Finally, federal construction projects in the capital may trigger the environmental review

requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act (“NEPA”). See 42 U.S.C. § 4321 et seq.

Given the value in integrating planning, historic preservation, and environmental review, projects

submitted to the NCPC are also subjected to the NEPA process. See 1 C.F.R. §§ 601.1,

601.2(d). A federal agency that must independently comply with NEPA takes the lead on

environmental review for its own projects, whereas the NCPC serves as the “Lead Agency” for

NEPA purposes when it reviews applications submitted by “non-federal agencies,” see 1 C.F.R.



                                                  4

---

<!-- page 5 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45        Filed 05/29/26      Page 5 of 42




§ 601.4 (cleaned up), which include the Smithsonian Institution and the Kennedy Center, among

other entities, see 1 C.F.R. § 601.3.

       B. Factual Background1

               1. Upheaval at the Kennedy Center

       2025 was a tumultuous year at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.

Shortly after retaking office in January, President Trump replaced several general trustees on the

Kennedy Center Board and appointed himself as a trustee, as well. The newly-reconstituted

Board promptly elected President Trump as their Chair. Around the same time, the President

sacked the Center’s former president and replaced her with Richard Grenell, a longtime political

ally. See generally Compl. ¶¶ 33–35.

       Over the summer, the Kennedy Center received an influx of federal dollars through the

OBBBA. Congress appropriated roughly $257 million to cover “necessary expenses for capital

repair, restoration, maintenance backlog, and security structures” of the Center’s “building and

site.” Pub. L. No. 119-21, § 60025. An accompanying House Budget Committee report

explained that the funding would “address deferred maintenance and upkeep of the Kennedy

Center’s building and grounds” and “[m]ore specifically” support “water system upgrades, office

space improvements, electric enhancements, elevator upgrades, rigging replacement . . ., seating

replacement, lighting and backstage improvements, hydronic system (water heaters)

modernization, and bathroom upgrades, among other items.” See H.R. Rep. No. 119-106, pt. 1,

at 1175 (2025). President Trump publicly touted the appropriation, claiming that “in the coming

months, we’ll fully renovate . . . the entire infrastructure of the building.” Compl. ¶ 38.


       1
         This background section relies on facts alleged in the complaint, sources incorporated
by reference into the complaint and subject to judicial notice, and documentary and testimonial
evidence adduced thus far in this proceeding.


                                                  5

---

<!-- page 6 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC            Document 45        Filed 05/29/26      Page 6 of 42




       Weeks later, in September, the Kennedy Center announced on social media that “work

has begun!” See Mot. for Prelim. Inj., Ex. 17 (X post declaring start of renovation). “President

Trump has given the Kennedy Center $257 million to renovate and restore America’s Premiere

Arts Institution to its glory,” the Center proclaimed. Id. “Today, we start refurbishing and re-

painting the 200 iconic columns around the Kennedy Center with a new color – Site White.” Id.

President Trump has been “part of many conversations involving that” and “other pieces of

work” at the Center, as he is “in the details” of the renovation. Prelim. Inj. Motion Hr’g Tr. at

18:19–22, 15:10–12 (“Hr’g Tr.”) (testimony of Kennedy Center Executive Director Matthew

Floca, referred to hereinafter as “Floca testimony”). But Center staff apparently sought no input

or permission from any federal planning agency regarding the task. Compl. ¶ 41.

       In December, the Board made another landmark decision, voting to rename the Kennedy

Center “The Donald J. Trump and the John F. Kennedy Memorial Center for the Performing

Arts,” or the “Trump Kennedy Center,” for short. Compl. ¶ 43. The Board meeting had been

called the day before the decision was made, and renaming the institution was not on its agenda.

Id.; see also Beatty v. Trump, No. 25-cv-4480 (CRC), Defs.’ Resps. to Pl.’s Stmt. of Mat. Facts,

ECF No. 33-1 ¶ 16.2 Yet the day after the Board vote, President Trump’s name was added to the

Center’s front portico above President Kennedy’s. Compl. ¶ 44. As the speedy turnaround

suggests, the lettering had been “prepared and/or purchased prior to the Board’s vote the day

before.” Beatty, Defs.’ Resps. to Pl.’s Stmt. of Mat. Facts, ECF No. 33-1 ¶ 20. This addition to

the building’s façade was also not vetted by any planning agency. Compl. ¶ 44.



       2
          The Court will take judicial notice of evidence adduced in Beatty that is “not subject to
reasonable dispute,” as that case and this one are closely related, and the parties have cross-cited
liberally to the record in each case as a result of the factual overlap between them. See Fain v.
Islamic Rep. of Iran, 856 F. Supp. 2d 109, 115 (D.D.C. 2012) (citing Fed. R. Evid. 201(b)).


                                                 6

---

<!-- page 7 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC            Document 45        Filed 05/29/26      Page 7 of 42




       The Kennedy Center is not the only D.C. landmark that the new administration has

sought to remake. In October 2025, officials announced that the entire East Wing of the White

House would be demolished, just a few months after the President reassured the public that the

ballroom he planned for the site would not “interfere with” and would “pay[] total respect to the

existing building, which [he was] the biggest fan of.” Compl. ¶ 48. After breaking ground,

demolition crews razed the East Wing within four days. Id.

               2. A “Complete Rebuilding” of the Kennedy Center

       Upheaval at the Kennedy Center continued into this year. On February 1, President

Trump delivered another big reveal by social media: The Kennedy Center would close for

roughly two years, during which time it would undergo serious construction work. “After a one

year review . . . that has taken place with Contractors, Musical Experts, Art Institutions, and

other Advisors and Consultants, deciding between either Construction with Closure and Re-

Opening or, Partial Construction while continuing Entertainment Operations through a much

longer period of time,” he explained,

       I have determined that the Trump Kennedy Center, if temporarily closed for
       Construction, Revitalization, and Complete Rebuilding, can be, without question,
       the finest Performing Arts Facility of its kind, anywhere in the World. . . .

       Based on these findings, and totally subject to Board approval, I have determined
       that the fastest way to bring The Trump Kennedy Center to the highest level of
       Success, Beauty, and Grandeur, is to cease Entertainment Operations for an
       approximately two year period of time . . .

       Therefore, the Trump Kennedy Center will close on July 4th, 2026, in honor of the
       250th Anniversary of our Country, whereupon we will simultaneously begin
       Construction of the new and spectacular Entertainment Complex. Financing is
       completed, and fully in place! This important decision, based on input from many
       Highly Respected Experts, will take a tired, broken, and dilapidated Center . . . and
       turn it into a World Class Bastion of Arts, Music, and Entertainment, far better than
       it has ever been before. America will be very proud of its new and beautiful
       Landmark for many generations to come. . . .



                                                 7

---

<!-- page 8 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC            Document 45        Filed 05/29/26      Page 8 of 42




Mot. for Prelim. Inj., Ex. 1 at 2–3 (Feb. 1, 2026 Trump Truth Social post). Perhaps responding

to concerns that the Kennedy Center might meet the same fate as the East Wing, President

Trump clarified to the press the next day that he was “not ripping [the Center] down.” Id., Ex.

30 at 2 (Feb. 2, 2026 ABC News article). He added that he would be “using the steel,” the

“structure,” and “some of the marble,” though “some of the marble” would “come down.” Id. at

3. The steel would be “all be checked out because [it would] be fully exposed.” Id. Ultimately,

when the Center opened, it would be “brand new and really beautiful.” Id.

       Almost immediately, Kennedy Center staff began taking steps to effectuate the closure.

By mid-February, a high-level budget document had been drawn up, outlining several generic

categories of construction work slated for the two-year closure period—namely, “Shell & Site

Infrastructure,” “Public & Support Spaces,” “Performance Venue Revitalization,” and “Safety &

Building Systems.” See generally Opp. to Mot. for Prelim. Inj. (“Opp. Br.”), Ex. E. The budget

alludes to discrete projects within those categories, such as “Sanitary & Domestic Piping”

improvements, “Electrical System Upgrades,” “Front of House Renewal,” and “Rock Creek

Parkway Stabilization.” Id. at 3, 6, 10. But it offers no detail about specific site projects. And

remarkably, despite being mere weeks away from the announced closure date, there is no “one

deliverable” that outlines the construction work planned for the Kennedy Center. Hr’g Tr. at

83:18–19 (Floca testimony).

       Matthew Floca, who was then serving as a facilities-focused vice president of the

Kennedy Center, first presented the closure proposal to the Board’s Building and Grounds

Committee on March 2. See generally Beatty, Pl.’s Suppl. Br. in Supp. of Mot. for Prelim. Inj.,

ECF No. 29-7, Ex. P (March 2 Building and Grounds Committee meeting minutes). The full

Board convened two weeks later on March 16. As its first order of business, the Board voted to



                                                 8

---

<!-- page 9 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC            Document 45       Filed 05/29/26      Page 9 of 42




appoint Mr. Floca as Executive Director of the Center, replacing Mr. Grenell. Compl. ¶ 57.

Floca then offered a high-level review of the need for closure while the Center engaged in capital

repairs and upgrades. Although members had received no written materials whatsoever about

the closure until the weekend before the Monday meeting—and then only as a result of this

Court’s issuance of a temporary restraining order in the related Beatty case—the Board voted to

ratify the shutdown in under half an hour. See generally Beatty, Defs.’ Cross-Mot. for Summ. J.,

ECF No. 34-5, Ex. 1 (March 16 Board meeting minutes).

               3. Planned Campus Renovations

       Litigants rushed to the courthouse to challenge the Kennedy Center’s recent actions.

Congresswoman and Kennedy Center trustee Joyce Beatty filed a suit contesting the Center’s

renaming and the lawfulness of its closure. See generally Beatty v. Trump, No. 25-cv-4480

(CRC), First Amended Compl., ECF No. 12. In this case, a coalition of historic preservationists,

architects, and historians challenge the Center’s ability to carry out the planned renovations

without first seeking Congressional and regulatory approvals from various planning agencies.

       As both sets of plaintiffs have litigated their motions for preliminary relief, more

information about the closure and planned renovations has come to light. The story begins years

ago, in 2021 and 2022, when the Center issued two Comprehensive Building Plans (“CBPs”) that

outlined a variety of structural and mechanical issues throughout the main campus building that

required attention. See Beatty, Pl.’s Suppl. Br. in Supp. of Mot. for Prelim. Inj., ECF No. 29-15,

Ex. X (2022 CBP); ECF No. 29-16, Ex. Y (2021 CBP). In 2022 and 2024, external consultants

prepared reports concerning a displaced soffit panel at the northwest corner of the Center and

water intrusion elsewhere in the building. See id., ECF No. 29-17, Ex. Z (2022 Soffit Failure

Field Report); ECF No. 29-18, Ex. AA (2024 Leak Investigation Report Part 1); ECF No. 29-19,



                                                 9

---

<!-- page 10 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC            Document 45        Filed 05/29/26      Page 10 of 42




Ex. BB (2024 Leak Investigation Report Part 2); ECF No. 29-20, Ex. CC (2024 Leak

Investigation Report Part 3). Notwithstanding the Center’s serious repair needs, these plans and

reports did not presume a prolonged or total closure of the Kennedy Center campus. To the

contrary, the CBPs contemplated that any necessary renovations would be done in a “phased”

manner so that the building could remain open. Hr’g Tr. at 89:8–9.

       Mr. Floca has indicated, both in sworn declarations and live testimony, that the

construction planned for the two-year closure period largely tracks the repair needs outlined in

the CBPs and external consultant reports. See, e.g., Opp. Br., Ex. A (“Floca Decl.”) ¶¶ 8–9.

There will be “three buckets” of construction work: (1) structural and waterproofing repairs

aimed at addressing soffit and structural steel failure driven by water intrusion; (2) “public

patron-facing improvements,” including restroom improvements, signage upgrades, and box

office relocation; and (3) overhauls to “mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems” that have

experienced “substantial failures.” Hr’g Tr. at 55:16–56:5.

       Although there is no single, up-to-date document or compendium detailing all the

planned projects, the Court can piece together some details from Mr. Floca’s declarations, his

testimony, and the high-level budget filed by the Defendants. Construction crews will assess and

replace failing soffit panels, which sit on the underside of the overhang surrounding the

perimeter of the main building. See Hr’g Tr. at 56:6–57:18. They will engage in waterproofing

to address “significant water intrusion across the entire campus,” especially in the Center’s

electrical vaults, a task which will entail “excavat[ing] along the entire length of the service

road.” See id. at 59:11–23, 66:8–14. And they will upgrade plumbing infrastructure, as well as

chillers, boilers, and the campus water filtration system. See id. at 62:16–63:25. The plans

encompass updates not only to “back-of-the-house infrastructure,” but also “back-of-the-house



                                                 10

---

<!-- page 11 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45        Filed 05/29/26     Page 11 of 42




theatrical spaces.” Id. at 64:12–13. The Center will “replace hundreds of actual ropes that are

the age of the building, as well as some of the lacking safety mechanisms,” thereby enhancing

“fall protection” for stagehands. Id. at 64:13–65:10. This work will “involve[] the demolition of

stage floors and the reconfiguration of overhead structural steel[.]” Floca Decl. ¶ 10.

       A raft of more aesthetic changes is also anticipated. Mr. Floca testified that the Center is

“contemplating . . . replac[ing]” seats in the Concert Hall and Opera House, see Hr’g Tr. at 14:1–

2, while President Trump has reported that “seating” had already been “purchased,” Beatty, Pl.’s

Reply in Supp. of Mot. for Prelim. Inj., ECF No. 37-3, Ex. NN (“March 16 Press Conf. Tr.”) at

15–16. Floca described a “comprehensive interior design package” that will apparently include

changing out red carpets for ones with a black-and-gold pattern. Hr’g Tr. at 30:14–25. Outdated

bathrooms will be serviced and upgraded. See id. at 62:23–25. There will be no change to the

“footprint” of the campus’ several fountains, but their “guts” will be replaced. Id. at 85:9–14.

Landscaping around the REACH Expansion of the Kennedy Center campus will be improved.

Id. at 86:7–9. Most of the weeping willow trees that were part of the Center’s original design

have already been felled due to decay, and Floca believes that “weeping cherry tree[s]” would

serve as a “perfect” replacement. Id. 28:2–22.

       Mr. Floca has further described a “hardening of the security perimeter.” Floca Decl. ¶ 8.

He elaborated in court that this perimeter would include “bollards at the service tunnel,”

“[v]ehicle force protection,” and locking doors. Hr’g Tr. at 42:15–25.

       Mr. Floca’s testimony also sheds light on what the construction project will not entail—at

least in his own view, as he is “not in control” of the President’s “personal decision-making.” Id.

at 47:11–12. Floca avers that “planned construction, renovation, and renewal efforts are only

limited to the current structures, buildings, and grounds”; “[n]o new structure or building will be



                                                 11

---

<!-- page 12 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45       Filed 05/29/26      Page 12 of 42




erected on the campus”; and “the planned construction, renovation, and renewal efforts will not

tear down the Center to its structural steel and rebuild a new structure from those foundations.”

Floca Decl. ¶ 6. And he has testified that neither he nor anyone else at the Center has active

“plans to demolish” the building, nor will any new structure or building be erected or rebuilt

from the bare structural steel. See Hr’g Tr. at 46:11; 47:6–8; 78:9–13.

       Yet Mr. Floca’s testimony leaves quite a bit up in the air. For one, there are evident

discrepancies between President Trump’s heralding of a “Complete Rebuilding” of the premises,

which he has repeated well past February 1,3 and Floca’s more modest, but sworn, representation

that the Center will not be torn down and rebuilt. Floca could not directly resolve these tensions

at the hearing, admitting that he could not “speak to” what President Trump might have

“intend[ed]” in his various statements to the press. Id. at 32:18–24.

       For another, it is unclear just how much of the campus will be closed for the two-year

construction period. Mr. Floca recognized that “[t]he majority of the grounds directly around the

building will be behind a construction fence” during the closure, id. at 69:10–12, but he also

stated that the REACH Expansion will remain open to some extent for limited programming and

memorial purposes, id. at 69:11–23.

       Third, numerous budget line items are too vague to fully interpret. For instance, the

Center has designated $20 million for “Front of House Renewal,” but provides no detail as to

what that expenditure will cover. See Opp. Br., Ex. E at 6. Likewise, the budget mentions front-

and back-of-house “restoration” of the Center’s performance spaces, the total cost of which will




       3
       At the press conference before the March 16 Board meeting, for instance, President
Trump again described the construction project as a “rebuilding.” March 16 Press Conf. Tr. at 5.


                                                12

---

<!-- page 13 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45        Filed 05/29/26      Page 13 of 42




be nearly $50 million. Id. at 8. Does this work encompass only the aforementioned changes in

carpeting, seating, and rigging, or might there be yet other alterations to those spaces?

       Lastly, it is conceivable that the construction may involve other federal agencies like the

National Park Service (“NPS”), which exercises jurisdiction over Rock Creek Parkway and other

adjacent federal parklands, though no concrete plans are yet in place. Mr. Floca testified, for

example, that the “Rock Creek Parkway Stabilization” project and site landscaping on the

Potomac River embankments would require “coordinat[ing] with NPS on traffic control,” but

said that “structurally we are not making any changes to the parkway.” Hr’g Tr. 85:21–86:12.

Whatever the anticipated intrusion upon physical spaces under other agencies’ jurisdiction, the

extent of coordination that will be required and potential permitting obligations remain opaque.

       C. Procedural Background

       DC Preservation League filed suit in late March 2026, soon after the Kennedy Center

Board voted to shutter the Center for at least two years pending renovations. It has brought

APA, ultra vires, and mandamus claims against a suite of defendants, including “Agency

Defendants” (NPS, the U.S. Department of the Interior, Interior Secretary Douglas J. Burgum,

the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (“USACE”), and the NCPC) and “Non-Agency Defendants”

(the Kennedy Center Board of Trustees, the Smithsonian Institution, and President Trump).4

       Shortly after filing its complaint, the League moved for a preliminary injunction,

requesting that the Court prohibit any proposed demolition or major reconstruction until the

Defendants obtained Congressional approval and satisfied a host of purported planning



       4
         The Court uses the “Agency”/“Non-Agency” shorthand in recognition of the fact that,
according to the D.C. Circuit, the Smithsonian Institution is not an “authority of the government
of the United States” under the Privacy Act or APA. Dong, 125 F.3d at 883. By extension, and
for substantially the same reasons laid out in Dong, neither is the Kennedy Center (or its Chair).


                                                 13

---

<!-- page 14 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC          Document 45         Filed 05/29/26       Page 14 of 42




obligations. The parties briefed the motion, and the Court held a hearing during which both DC

Preservation League and Defendants’ counsel had an opportunity to elicit testimony from Mr.

Floca. The Court afforded the parties two weeks to file post-hearing supplemental briefs in light

of the additional testimony and legal issues aired at the hearing. DC Preservation League’s

motion for preliminary injunction is now ripe for adjudication.

  II.    Legal Standards

         “A preliminary injunction is an extraordinary remedy never awarded as of right.” Winter

v. Nat. Res. Def. Council, 555 U.S. 7, 24 (2008). To secure one, a plaintiff “must establish that

he is likely to succeed on the merits, that he is likely to suffer irreparable harm in the absence of

preliminary relief, that the balance of equities tips in his favor, and that an injunction is in the

public interest.” Id. at 20. The movant bears the burden to show that the “four factors, taken

together,” support an injunction. Abdullah v. Obama, 753 F.3d 193, 197 (D.C. Cir. 2014).

         This case presents APA, ultra vires, and mandamus causes of action. Prevailing on the

latter two claim types is no walk in the park. Ultra vires claims are reserved for scenarios where

a government entity “has stepped so plainly beyond the bounds of its statutory authority, or acted

so clearly in defiance of it, as to warrant the immediate intervention of an equity court.” Fed. Ex.

Corp. v. U.S. Dep’t of Commerce, 39 F.4th 756, 764 (D.C. Cir. 2022) (cleaned up) (“FedEx”).

“To prevail on an ultra vires claim, the plaintiff must establish that (1) review is not expressly

precluded by statute, (2) there is no alternative procedure for review of the statutory claim[,] and

(3) the challenged action is plainly in excess of the agency’s delegated powers and contrary to a

specific prohibition in the statute that is clear and mandatory.” Glob. Health Council v. Trump,

153 F.4th 1, 20 (D.C. Cir. 2025) (cleaned up). The third requirement means that “[o]nly error

that is patently a misconstruction of the [relevant statute], that disregards a specific and



                                                  14

---

<!-- page 15 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45        Filed 05/29/26       Page 15 of 42




unambiguous statutory directive, or that violates some specific command of a statute will support

relief.” FedEx, 39 F.4th at 764 (cleaned up).

       As ultra vires review “could become an easy end-run around the limitations” of judicial

review statutes, the Supreme Court has “strictly limited” its scope. Nuclear Reg. Comm’n v.

Texas, 605 U.S. 665, 681 (2025). The exception does not apply “simply because” government

action “does not comport with law.” Id. (cleaned up). Rather, the challenged conduct must be

plainly “unauthorized.” Id. at 680 (cleaned up). As such, an ultra vires claim is often viewed as

a “Hail Mary pass,” Nyunt v. Chairman, Broad. Bd. of Governors, 589 F.3d 445, 449 (D.C. Cir.

2009), though the hurdle is not entirely “insurmountable,” Nat’l Trust for Hist. Pres. v. Nat’l

Park Serv., No. 25-cv-4316 (RJL), 2026 WL 877779, at *6 (D.D.C. Mar. 31, 2026).

       Mandamus is similarly an “extraordinary remedy, reserved only for the most transparent

violations of a clear duty to act.” In re Ctr. for Bio. Diversity, 53 F.4th 665, 670 (D.C. Cir. 2022)

(citing In re Bluewater Network, 234 F.3d 1305, 1315 (D.C. Cir. 2000)). To be entitled to

mandamus, the plaintiff must demonstrate “(1) a clear and indisputable right to relief, (2) that the

government agency or official is violating a clear duty to act, and (3) that no adequate alternative

remedy exists.” Am. Hosp. Ass’n v. Burwell, 812 F.3d 183, 189 (D.C. Cir. 2016). “These three

threshold requirements are jurisdictional,” and even if satisfied, a court may still only grant

mandamus relief when it finds “compelling equitable grounds” to do so. Id. (cleaned up).

 III. Analysis

       With these legal standards in mind, the Court turns to its preliminary injunction analysis.

It evaluates the likelihood of success of each count in the complaint, first considering the

viability of the APA claims against the Agency Defendants before pivoting to the ultra vires and

mandamus claims against the Non-Agency Defendants. On the available record, the Court



                                                 15

---

<!-- page 16 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45        Filed 05/29/26      Page 16 of 42




concludes that DC Preservation League is unlikely to succeed on the merits of any of its claims,

and it need not address the remaining preliminary injunction factors. See, e.g., Apotex, Inc. v.

FDA, 449 F.3d 1249, 1254 (D.C. Cir. 2006).

       Before the claim-by-claim breakdown, some factual table-setting is in order. As

mentioned, there is a significant discrepancy between President Trump’s grandiose vision for the

Center’s transformation and Mr. Floca’s more measured representations. The Court places

greater weight on the latter, given that Floca has submitted several sworn declarations in this

case and Beatty and then testified under oath in a generally credible fashion as to the details of

the planned construction. On the current record, the Kennedy Center does not appear poised for

large-scale demolition and rebuilding. See Floca Decl. ¶ 6; Hr’g Tr. at 46:11; 47:6–8; 78:9–13.

Nor does it seem that the physical footprint of the campus’ buildings and structures will change.

While the Center will undergo significant infrastructural alterations and upgrades, there are

apparently no plans to tear down existing buildings or structures on site or erect any new ones.

       To be sure, the planned construction is anything but minor. There will be demolition and

replacement of component parts of performing spaces, overhauls of heating and cooling systems,

and considerable remediation to the Center’s external frame. This is not routine maintenance.

       Aside from general descriptors, the precise nature of the construction is shrouded with

uncertainty. There is, again, no “one deliverable” that lists the specific construction projects

planned for the next two years and the timetable on which they will be achieved. Hr’g Tr. at

83:18–19. The budget document the Defendants have produced to the Court is light on specifics.

This paucity of detail renders the Court’s factual determinations necessarily tentative.

       There is also an atmospheric sense that what may be true today may not be true

tomorrow. This administration has already demolished one historic building in the Washington



                                                 16

---

<!-- page 17 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45        Filed 05/29/26      Page 17 of 42




D.C. area without advance warning, after months of reassurances that it would remain

untouched. President Trump has publicly suggested that he could fire Floca on a whim, should

he be unsatisfied with the Executive Director’s performance. See March 16 Press Conf. Tr. at 9

(“But if I don’t think he will do a good job, I’ll say, Matt, you’re fired, I’m getting somebody

else. So you’re under no pressure, Matt.”). And the Kennedy Center Board has further

demonstrated its capacity for caprice. As the Court concludes in its companion ruling in the

Beatty case, the trustees voted to rename the Center in President Trump’s honor, violating

Congress’s clear command that the institution be named only for President Kennedy. Board

members also voted to close the Center with scant regard for their duties under the Center’s

organic statute to operate the institution as a performance venue and presidential memorial.

       Still, the Court cannot issue a preliminary injunction based on hypotheticals when the

sworn testimony before it tells a different story. Cf. Postal Police Off. Ass’n v. USPS, 502 F.

Supp. 3d 411, 425–26 (D.D.C. 2020) (Cooper, J.) (explaining that courts cannot issue injunctions

based on theoretical possibilities of harm). For purposes of this motion, the Court will proceed

on the understanding that full demolition and a “Complete Rebuilding” are not in the cards.

       A. APA Claims against Agency Defendants

       DC Preservation League has lodged an array of APA claims against the Agency

Defendants based on their purported failure to satisfy obligations under Section 8106, the NCPC

and CFA planning review statutes, Sections 106 and 110(k) of the NHPA, NEPA, and the

Kennedy Center’s organic statute. See generally Compl. Counts I–VII. Despite bringing these

claims under the auspices of the APA, the League has not shown that any of the “Agency

Defendants” has territorial jurisdiction over land or waterways implicated by the renovations as

currently scoped, nor has it established that any of their statutory obligations have yet come due.



                                                17

---

<!-- page 18 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC          Document 45        Filed 05/29/26      Page 18 of 42




       The APA authorizes courts to review “final agency action.” 5 U.S.C. § 704. Agency

action is final where it “marks the consummation of the agency’s decisionmaking process” and is

an action “by which the rights or obligations have been determined, or from which legal

consequences will flow.” Bennett v. Spear, 520 U.S. 154, 177–78 (1997) (cleaned up). Under

the APA, courts may also review an agency’s failure to act, so long as the action in question was

discrete, legally required, and improperly withheld. See Norton v. Southern Utah Wild. All., 542

U.S. 55, 61–64 (2004).

       The APA claims in this case hit a snag on final agency action. Consider, first, the claims

against NPS, Interior, and Secretary Burgum. DC Preservation League initially contended that

Kennedy Center’s “cantilevered west patio” fell “within the vertical air rights of the Rock Creek

and Potomac Parkway, a federally managed NPS unit,” so the renovation project necessarily

triggered planning obligations as to NPS and its parent agency. Mot. for Prelim. Inj. at 17. The

government has submitted an unrebutted declaration from NPS director Tammy Stidham,

clarifying that the Center’s property “includes the air rights over the Rock Creek and Potomac

Parkway” and under the west patio. Opp. Br., Ex. B (“Stidham Decl.”) ¶¶ 8–10. It thus appears

that NPS and Interior lack jurisdiction over the air space above the Parkway and below the

cantilevered terrace, which served as the League’s original territorial hook for these Defendants.

       The League further posits that the Kennedy Center renovations will encroach on NPS

territory because the bare-bones budget document outlining the Kennedy Center’s construction

plan alludes to “Rock Creek Parkway Stabilization,” work on HVAC systems under the

Parkway, and landscaping on Potomac River embankments. See Reply Br. in Supp. of Mot. for

Prelim. Inj. (“Reply Br.”) at 12–13. Mr. Floca testified that some of this work would necessitate

“coordinat[ing] with NPS on traffic control,” but explained that “structurally we are not making



                                                18

---

<!-- page 19 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45        Filed 05/29/26      Page 19 of 42




any changes to the parkway.” Hr’g Tr. at 85:21–86:12. The Court reiterates that the Kennedy

Center’s plans are remarkably vague, given how soon renovations are set to begin. It may be

that work alluded to in the budget document will require some kind of access permit from NPS.

See Reply Br. at 12–13. The Defendants’ counsel has confirmed that such permitting is

“possible.” Hr’g Tr. at 150:21–24; see also Stidham Decl. ¶ 12 (explaining that if the Center

“propose[s] to use lands under NPS jurisdiction for construction staging, excavation, access, or

other activities then a permit or other written authorization would be required”).5

       Still, DC Preservation League has not established why the Agency Defendants can be

held responsible for another government entity’s failure to submit its plans or seek required

permits in a timely fashion. Absent some kind of “consummation” of each agency’s own

“decisionmaking process,” Bennett, 520 U.S. at 177–78, or the unlawful withholding of a

“discrete agency action” that the agency itself is “required to take,” Norton, 542 U.S. at 64

(emphasis removed), the League’s APA challenge as to those defendants is premature.

       The same goes for USACE. DC Preservation League insists that the renovations will

require Army Corps “permits for any construction staging, excavation, or discharge under the

Clean Water Act and Rivers and Harbors Act.” Mot. for Prelim. Inj. at 15. It elaborates on reply

that work on the Rock Creek Parkway “very likely requires USACE to issue a permit for (at

minimum) discharges of sediment or other fill material to navigable waters” and that work on the



       5
         If the Center eventually applies for a permit from a federal agency like NPS, that
permitting process would seem to trigger at least some form of planning review to which the
Non-Agency Defendants maintain they are not subject. See, e.g., 54 U.S.C. § 306108
(subjecting both the “head of any Federal agency having direct or indirect jurisdiction” over an
undertaking and “the head of any Federal department or independent agency having authority to
license” such an undertaking to the Section 106 historic preservation review process (emphases
added)). Thus, as a purely practical matter, the Non-Agency Defendants would seem to risk
further delay on the renovation work by postponing the permitting process.


                                                19

---

<!-- page 20 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45        Filed 05/29/26      Page 20 of 42




HVAC systems, which apparently draw water from the Potomac, “may require USACE to revise

or reissue the Center’s water use permit.” Reply Br. at 12–13. According to government

counsel, however, no such permitting will likely be necessary.6 Although Defendants have not

submitted concrete evidence on this sub-point, it remains unclear why the Kennedy Center’s

purported failure to seek the requisite permits authorizes an APA suit against the permitting

agency, which has nothing before it to decide.

       This reasoning applies equally to the last named Agency Defendant, NCPC. The

Kennedy Center has engaged in informal, “staff-level consultation” with the Commission,

although it has not “submitted” any “official[]” plans and maintains it is not legally obligated to

do so. See Hr’g Tr. at 101:14–102:18; 163:9–25. The NCPC is thus more involved in the

renovation process than the NPS, Interior, or the Army Corps. However, because the

Commission has not received any official submissions from the Kennedy Center, the status of

NCPC’s official decisionmaking process is murky. Has it begun? Has it been completed? Has

NCPC withheld a discrete action that it is legally required to take? Without answers to these

questions, the League cannot maintain an APA claim.

       At this early stage, then, the DC Preservation League’s APA claims against the Agency

Defendants do not appear likely to succeed. The Court lacks sufficient evidence to conclude that

any of the agencies has direct territorial control over the planned renovation work. And the

League has not demonstrated that the agencies have engaged in final agency action or unlawfully

withheld some discrete action they were required to carry out. In fact, as the Plaintiffs’ counsel


       6
         See Hr’g Tr. at 151:14–20 (“MR. ROTH: . . . I will say that on the Army Corps point,
we don’t think there is going to be any permit necessary. The water system has been permitted
for decades. What needs to be updated is the filter. When the water comes into the building, it
should be filtered before it’s used. But the process of taking the water out has already been
properly permitted for a long time.”).


                                                 20

---

<!-- page 21 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC            Document 45        Filed 05/29/26      Page 21 of 42




noted at the motion hearing, these agencies “have nothing to review” thus far. Id. at 140:16. If

“fault lies with” anyone, then, it lies with the Kennedy Center for failing to initiate various

permitting and review processes that it is purportedly required to initiate. Id. at 140:17–19. The

remainder of this opinion therefore focuses on the claims brought against the Non-Agency

Defendants—i.e., the Center’s Board of Trustees, its Chair, and its parent agency, the

Smithsonian.

       B. Claims against Non-Agency Defendants

       DC Preservation League’s claims against the three remaining Defendants take multiple

forms. A few counts allege that the Non-Agency Defendants have acted beyond their statutory

authority. The remainder assert that these Defendants have failed to engage in various

mandatory planning processes. The Court ticks through each claim in turn.

               1. Statutory Authority Claims

                               a. Section 8106 Ultra Vires Claim

       Count IX of DC Preservation League’s complaint is an ultra vires claim against the Non-

Agency Defendants for violating 40 U.S.C. § 8106, which mandates that a “building or structure

shall not be erected on any reservation, park, or public grounds of the Federal Government in the

District of Columbia without express authority of Congress.”

       If the Kennedy Center were slated to be demolished and rebuilt in some fashion, the

League might have a strong ultra vires claim on its hands, given the statute’s plain prohibition on

erecting buildings and structures without Congress’s express permission. Cf. Nat’l Trust, 2026

WL 877779, at *10–12 (holding that plaintiffs challenging East Wing ballroom construction

were likely to succeed on their Section 8106 claim because Congress had not authorized the

project). Any implication that Congress specifically approved the demolition and rebuilding of



                                                 21

---

<!-- page 22 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45         Filed 05/29/26      Page 22 of 42




the Kennedy Center by way of the OBBBA, see, e.g., Opp. Br. at 14–15, is far-fetched. See Pub.

L. No. 119-21, § 60025 (appropriating roughly $257 million to cover “necessary expenses for

capital repair, restoration, maintenance backlog, and security structures”); H.R. Rep. No. 119-

106, pt. 1, at 1175 (explaining that the funding would “address deferred maintenance and

upkeep”); see also Nat’l Trust, 2026 WL 877779, at *10 (“[A]n appropriation from Congress is

authorization to use funds for a specified purpose.” (emphasis added)).

       Yet, as the Court has noted, Mr. Floca’s sworn testimony disavows the “erect[ing]” of a

building or structure, notwithstanding President Trump’s long shadow over his job security and

the construction project more generally, as well as the administration’s vicissitudes concerning

the East Wing. Floca has attested under oath that “planned construction, renovation, and renewal

efforts are only limited to the current structures, buildings, and grounds” and that “[n]o new

structure or building will be erected on the campus.” Floca Decl. ¶ 6. He likewise testified that

neither he nor anyone else at the Center has active “plans to demolish” the building, and that no

new structure or building will be erected or rebuilt from the bare structural steel. See Hr’g Tr. at

46:11; 47:6–8; 78:9–13. To the Court’s knowledge, there were no such statements made under

oath before the East Wing’s destruction.

       The Court cannot disregard Mr. Floca’s sworn testimony. And DC Preservation

League’s counsel conceded that there was nothing in the record beyond the President’s

statements to “show that a new structure or building” would be “erected on the Kennedy Center

grounds.” Hr’g Tr. at 112:19–113:6. Any resulting factual uncertainty on this score does not

bode well for the League’s ultra vires claim. Recall that it is not enough, under that strict rubric,

for the Non-Agency Defendants to act unlawfully; they must “step[] so plainly beyond the




                                                 22

---

<!-- page 23 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC            Document 45         Filed 05/29/26       Page 23 of 42




bounds of [their] statutory authority, or act[] so clearly in defiance of it, as to warrant” judicial

“intervention.” FedEx, 39 F.4th at 764. Such a determination eludes the Court on this record.7

                                b. Section 76j(a)(1)(G) Ultra Vires Claim

        DC Preservation League’s next ultra vires claim—Count X—posits that the Non-Agency

Defendants have exceeded their statutory authority to carry out construction work at the Center

because the Board’s capital authority extends only to “capital repair, replacement, improvement,

rehabilitation, alteration, or modification” projects that are “necessary to maintain the

functionality of the building and site at current standards of life, safety, security, and

accessibility.” 20 U.S.C. § 76j(a)(1)(G) (emphasis added). The planned construction, the

League says, goes beyond the needs of essential functionality.

        Notwithstanding the Center’s lack of construction plans for a project slated to begin in

mere weeks, the Court cannot say that the League has established a likelihood of success on

Count X for two principal reasons. First, much of the contemplated construction is aimed at

consummating the repairs laid out in the 2021 and 2022 CBPs, as well as in reports on external

soffit failure and water intrusion. See, e.g., Floca Decl. ¶ 9; Hr’g Tr. at 34:19–21 (“[W]e have

the comprehensive building plan and that tells us the needs[.]”); Hr’g Tr. at 88:15–17 (“The 2021

[CBP] touches on the majority of the [repairs] I have been talking about[.]”). Such capital

repairs fall neatly within the scope of Section 76j(a)(1)(G), and DC Preservation League offers


        7
         DC Preservation League correctly points out that the Kennedy Center has sought
Congressional authorization for several construction projects in the past. See, e.g., Mot. for
Prelim. Inj. at 5 n.2. That past practice does not resolve the specific ultra vires claim presented
here. Some of those projects—for instance, the REACH Expansion and the addition to the
Center’s parking garage—would have required Congress’s permission because they added new
structures to the campus. As for the seemingly less intrusive addition of a “photovoltaic system”
on the roof of the main building, see 20 U.S.C. § 76m, the Kennedy Center had to go to Congress
anyway to secure a specific appropriation for the work, see id. § 76r(d), and it is not entirely
clear from the statute itself whether express Congressional authorization was otherwise required.


                                                  23

---

<!-- page 24 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45        Filed 05/29/26      Page 24 of 42




no reason to think this work is not necessary to “maintain the functionality of the building and

site” at the requisite levels—especially when the text of the statute permits not just repairs and

rehabilitations, but also “alteration,” “modification,” and “improvement.”8

       Second, Section 76j(a)(1)(G) is not the only provision in the organic statute that bears on

the Board’s capital repair authority. The Board is also charged with “provid[ing] . . . with

respect to the building and site of the [Center], all necessary maintenance, repair, and alteration

of, and all janitorial, security, and other services and equipment necessary for the operations of,

the building and site, in a manner consistent with requirements for high quality operations[.]” 20

U.S.C. § 76j(a)(1)(H). And Congress mandated that “the Hall of Nations, the Hall of States, and

the Grand Foyer” be maintained “in a manner that is suitable to a national performing arts center

that is operated as a Presidential memorial[.]” Id. § 76j(a)(2)(E).

       The evidentiary record reveals some amount of work that may not strictly “maintain the

functionality” of the Kennedy Center campus—for instance, upgrades to the seats in the

performance halls and campus landscaping. But even if the Court could quibble with the

Board’s designation of these projects as necessary to “maintain the functionality of the building

and site”—a dubious endeavor under the ultra vires framework given that the phrase is subject to

rather wide interpretation—such work would arguably fall within the broad scope of Section

76j(a)(1)(H) or (a)(2)(E). While the Defendants are hard-pressed to argue that the Center’s

wholesale rebuilding would fall comfortably within these statutory bounds, the Board’s



       8
          The League also suggests that Section 76j(a)(1)(G) prevents the Kennedy Center from
closing for a prolonged period. See Mot. for Prelim. Inj. at 21–22. In its opinion in the related
Beatty case, the Court has preliminarily enjoined the Board from effectuating its March 16 vote
to close the Center. So the League’s argument would seem to have been overtaken by events. In
any case, it is far from clear that Section 76j(a)(1)(G), by its own terms at least, precludes a
closure necessary to effectuate essential building repairs.


                                                 24

---

<!-- page 25 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC            Document 45         Filed 05/29/26      Page 25 of 42




construction authority is otherwise “ambiguous,” suggesting that its limit is not “sufficiently

clear and mandatory” to serve as a yardstick for ultra vires purposes. Nat’l Ass’n of Postal

Supervisors v. USPS, 26 F.4th 960, 971–72 (D.C. Cir. 2022). In other words, the Court cannot

say that the projects described in Mr. Floca’s sworn testimony go “patently” beyond the Board’s

capital repair authority or run afoul of a “specific and unambiguous statutory directive” in the

organic statute. FedEx, 39 F.4th at 764 (cleaned up).

                               c. Section 76j(a)(2)(F) Ultra Vires Claim

       DC Preservation League’s final statutory authority claim—Count XI—is anchored in

Section 76j(a)(2)(F) of the Kennedy Center’s organic statute, which dictates:

       The Board shall manage and operate the grounds of the [Kennedy Center] in a manner
       consistent with National Park Service regulations and agreements in effect on July 21,
       1994. No change in the management and operation of the grounds may be made without
       the express approval of Congress and of the Secretary of the Interior.

According to the League, the latter sentence of this provision categorically precludes the

Center’s two-year closure of the grounds without approval from Congress and Interior. In its

view, the March 16 closure decision, which will place the “majority of the grounds directly

around the building . . . behind a construction fence,” is ultra vires. Hr’g Tr. at 69:10–11.

       This claim starts on stronger footing than the others because Section 76j(a)(2)(F) includes

a clear statutory prohibition, and it is at least plausible to read the provision as preventing the

closure of the grounds absent Congressional and agency approval. In the colloquial sense, a

closure of the grounds may qualify as a “change in . . . operation” prohibited by the organic

statute. Meanwhile, the Defendants’ proposed reading of Section 76j(a)(2)(F), which would

require external approval only where the Center wishes to “sell[],” “lease[],” or “allow[] some

other entity to operate the grounds,” seems unduly cramped. Opp. Br. at 17.




                                                  25

---

<!-- page 26 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC            Document 45        Filed 05/29/26      Page 26 of 42




       Yet it is also possible—and, in the Court’s view, more natural—to read “management

and operation” in a different manner. Section 76j(a)(2)(F) begins by directing the Board to

“manage and operate” the Kennedy Center’s grounds “in a manner consistent with” NPS

regulations. The Court will presume that the terms “manage” and “operate,” which are used in

both sentences of the statutory provision, “bear the same meaning” in both places. Antonin

Scalia & Bryan A. Garner, Reading Law: The Interpretation of Legal Texts 170 (2012). Reading

the two sentences in sequence, Congress seems to be saying that the Board must seek legislative

and agency approval before “manag[ing] and operat[ing]” the grounds in a manner inconsistent

with NPS regulations—not that the Board must seek such affirmative approval any time it makes

even a marginal change in the operation of the grounds. Under DC Preservation League’s read

of the statute, something as minute as an adjustment in the campus’ operating hours would

necessitate Congressional and Interior consent. That interpretation makes little sense.

       The question remains whether a two-year closure of the Kennedy Center grounds (partial

or full, depending on the extent to which the REACH Expansion will remain open) is per se

inconsistent with governing NPS regulations. The parties have not grappled with that question

very fulsomely in their briefs, perhaps because neither side parsed the first sentence of Section

76j(a)(2)(F) until the Court referenced it at the motions hearings in this case and in Beatty.

       The Defendants insist that any argument pertaining to the regulations is thus forfeited.

See Defs.’ Suppl. Br. at 5–6. Not so. DC Preservation League’s Complaint duly raises the

Section 76j(a)(2)(F) claim, and the Court will not ignore the first sentence of that statutory

provision just because the League’s briefs have largely focused on the second. Cf. Glob. Health

Council, 153 F.4th at 13 (“[O]nce an argument is before us, it is our job to get the relevant . . .

law right.” (quoting United States v. Hillie, 39 F.4th 674, 684 (D.C. Cir. 2022)). Moreover, after



                                                  26

---

<!-- page 27 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45        Filed 05/29/26     Page 27 of 42




the Court asked about the NPS regulations at the hearings, the parties had an opportunity to

address them in their post-hearing supplemental briefs. Id. at 14 (holding that argument was not

forfeited where an adverse party had the chance to respond in a subsequent brief).

       Just because a line of argument is not forfeited, however, does not mean it’s a winner. To

be sure, the general park management regulations identified by DC Preservation League at the

motion hearing and in their post-hearing supplemental brief seem pertinent here. See 36 C.F.R.

§ 1.1 et seq. To the extent that the Defendants suggest these regulations do not apply because the

Kennedy Center is not a “park area” under NPS’s jurisdiction within the definition of the

regulations, see Defs.’ Suppl. Br. at 6–7, they have missed the point: It is the Center’s own

organic statute which mandates that the grounds be operated “in a manner consistent with [NPS]

regulations and agreements.” 20 U.S.C. § 76j(a)(2)(F).

       That said, DC Preservation League’s supplemental brief fails to fully ventilate the legal

obligations that those NPS park management regulations impose, if applied. For instance, the

rules do not flatly prohibit the closure of park grounds, though under non-emergency

circumstances, closures do require on-site public notice, id. § 1.7(a); a “written determination

justifying the action,” id. § 1.5(c); and, under certain circumstances, rulemaking in the Federal

Register, id. § 1.5(b).9 Even though Section 76j(a)(2)(F) requires that the Board “manage and

operate the grounds” in a “manner consistent with” these regulations, it is not apparent that a



       9
          The Court observes that, contrary to the Defendants’ representation at the motions
hearing, the Kennedy Center has the authority to “prescribe . . . regulations necessary for— (1)
the adequate protection of [its] specified buildings and grounds and individuals and property in
those buildings and grounds[.]” 40 U.S.C. § 6304(a)(1). In their post-hearing supplemental
brief, the Defendants suggest that they “can provide . . . public notice of the temporary grounds
closure,” including by “rulemaking.” Defs.’ Suppl. Br. at 8. Given that the renovation work will
likely require a “long-term or significant modification” in the Kennedy Center grounds and is of
a “highly controversial nature,” 36 C.F.R. § 1.5(b), rulemaking would seem to be in order.


                                                27

---

<!-- page 28 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC            Document 45         Filed 05/29/26       Page 28 of 42




partial or full closure of a park ground, even one that “result[s] in a significant alteration in the

public use pattern of the park area,” 36 C.F.R. § 1.5(b), demands Congressional approval.

        Given various plausible interpretations of Section 76j(a)(2)(F) and the can of worms

opened by the seemingly applicable NPS regulations, DC Preservation League has not

established a likelihood of success on its ultra vires claim. Section 76j(a)(2)(F) may be as

restrictive as the second sentence sounds. Yet interpreting the statute to permit grounds closures

in a manner consistent with NPS regulations, but without Congressional or Interior approval, is

not so wrong as to constitute a patent misconstruction of the statute. See, e.g., FedEx, 39 F.4th at

764 (cleaned up). As a result, the Court cannot conclude that the League is likely to succeed on

Count XI, which is rooted in the contention that the Kennedy Center grounds may not close

without the permission of Congress and Interior.

                2. Planning and Environmental Review Claims

                                a. Commission of Fine Arts Mandamus Claim

        The Court finally turns to the slate of claims that DC Preservation League brings against

the Non-Agency Defendants pursuant to various planning statutes. It begins with Count XIII, the

mandamus claim against the Kennedy Center, the Smithsonian, and President Trump based on

their alleged failure to consult with the CFA on the Center’s renovation.

        By statute, the CFA is required to “advise” on “the location of statues, fountains, and

monuments in the public squares, streets, and parks in the District of Columbia,” as well as the

“selection of models” and “artists” for such structures. 40 U.S.C. § 9102(a). “The officers

required to decide” such questions bear the burden of “request[ing] the Commission to provide

the advice[.]” Id. § 9102(b). The CFA’s regulations lay out an even broader regulatory remit.

“For public buildings to be erected in the District of Columbia by the federal government and for



                                                  28

---

<!-- page 29 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45        Filed 05/29/26     Page 29 of 42




other structures to be so erected which affect the appearance of the city, the Commission

comments and advises on the plans and on the merits of the designs before final approval or

action.” 45 C.F.R. § 2101.1(a)(1). And again, “statues, fountains and monuments to be erected

in the District of Columbia under authority of the federal government” must be “advise[d] upon”

by the CFA. Id. § 2101.1(a)(2).

       DC Preservation League’s likelihood of success on Count XIII depends on the Court’s

current understanding of the scope of renovation work at the Kennedy Center. If the plan were

closer to what President Trump has described on social media—a “Complete Rebuilding”—the

CFA’s regulations could create a clear duty to consult with the Commission according to its

regulatory parameters “on the merits of the designs before final approval or action.” 45 C.F.R. §

2101.1(a)(1).10 And recall that “[a]bsent a violation of a clear duty,” courts are “powerless to

grant mandamus.” In re Ctr. for Bio. Diversity, 53 F.4th at 670.

       The Defendants suggest that the Center has discharged any duty to consult with the CFA

by voluntarily engaging the CFA (and the NCPC, for that matter) in a “couple of staff-level

meetings.” Hr’g Tr. at 101:20–21 (Floca testimony); see also Opp. Br. at 17. The Court

disagrees. CFA (and NCPC) consultation processes entail far more than ad hoc, closed-door

staff meetings. At minimum, they require public input and actual, detailed submissions. See,

e.g., 45 C.F.R. § 2102.10 et seq. Whatever voluntary contact the Center has made with capital

planning agencies, it falls short of the purported legal requirements.




       10
          The parties do not address the extent to which a regulation, rather than a statute, can
create a “clear” legal duty for mandamus purposes. A regulatory duty would seem sufficient,
under some circumstances, to establish such a duty. See, e.g., United Gov’t Sec. Off. of Am.,
Local 52 v. Chertoff, 587 F. Supp. 2d 209, 218 n.7 (D.D.C. 2008); Milton S. Hershey Med. Ctr.
v. Becerra, Nos. 23-1382, 23-1384 (JDB), 2024 WL 3673614, at *5 (D.D.C. Aug. 6, 2024).


                                                 29

---

<!-- page 30 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45        Filed 05/29/26      Page 30 of 42




       At the risk of repetition, the bigger problem for DC Preservation League at this stage is

the factual record. In light of Mr. Floca’s sworn testimony, the Court cannot say that the

construction will entail “erect[ing]” any statues, fountains, monuments, or public buildings.

Thus, the project is arguably not within the CFA’s statutory or regulatory purview. Again, one

of the threshold requirements for a mandamus claim is that the government defendant has

neglected a clear duty. In re Ctr. for Bio. Diversity, 53 F.4th at 670. The Court lacks sufficient

evidence to conclude that the Non-Agency Defendants have a clear-cut duty to consult with the

CFA on this renovation project, at least as currently portrayed.

                              b. NCPC Mandamus Claim

       Count XII is a mandamus claim premised on the failure of the Kennedy Center Board,

Smithsonian, and President Trump to request review and approval from the NCPC for the

planned renovation work. Under 40 U.S.C. § 8722, government construction projects in the

capital triggers two requirements. Section 8722(b)(1) requires that federal and District of

Columbia “agenc[ies]” “advise and consult with the Commission” “before preparing

construction plans the agency originates for proposed developments and projects.” The agency

is not bound by the Commission’s recommendations, but must engage in a formal consultation

process that involves input from the general public. Id. Separately, Section 8722(d) mandates

that “[i]n order to ensure the orderly development of the National Capital, the location, height,

bulk, number of stories, and size of federal public buildings in the District of Columbia and the

provision for open space in and around federal public buildings in the District of Columbia are

subject to the approval of [NCPC].”

       The Court considers each of these statutory bases for DC Preservation League’s NCPC

mandamus claim independently—keeping in mind that, in the mandamus context, the challenged



                                                30

---

<!-- page 31 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC            Document 45         Filed 05/29/26       Page 31 of 42




defendant must have neglected to carry out a “crystal-clear legal duty.” In re Ctr. for Bio.

Diversity, 53 F.4th at 670. “Although the term ‘duty’ . . . must be narrowly defined, this does

not mean that mandamus actions are ruled out whenever the statute allegedly creating the duty is

ambiguous.” Lovitky v. Trump, 949 F.3d 753, 760 (D.C. Cir. 2020) (cleaned up). Where a

particular duty-conferring statute requires some interpretation, the question is whether “once

interpreted, the statute creates a peremptory obligation for the [government] officer to act,” and if

it does, a mandamus action may lie. Id. (cleaned up). Still, at the preliminary injunction stage,

the plaintiff bears the burden of persuading the court that its read of the statute is correct.

        Start with the Section 8722(b)(1) consultation requirement, which applies to federal and

District “agencies.” Neither Section 8722 nor its surrounding provisions define the term

“agency.” The Smithsonian is understood to be an agency for some purposes (e.g., the Federal

Tort Claims Act and the U.S. Constitution), but not others (e.g., the Privacy Act and the APA).

Compare Raven v. Sajet, 334 F. Supp. 3d 22, 28–32 (D.D.C. 2018), with Dong, 125 F.3d 877 at

882–83. And the Kennedy Center presumably has the same designations under the same statutes

for the same reasons. Cf. Groce v. Rodriguez, 743 F. Supp. 3d 244, 251–52 (D.D.C. 2024)

(concluding that the National Gallery of Art, which is institutionally comparable to the Kennedy

Center, is not an agency for the purpose of the APA under the logic of Dong); Polcari v. John F.

Kennedy Ctr. for the Performing Arts, 712 F. Supp. 230, 231–32 (D.D.C. 1989) (ruling that the

Kennedy Center is a federal agency covered by the Federal Tort Claims Act by virtue of being a

bureau of the Smithsonian). It is not entirely clear from the face of Section 8722, or surrounding

context, whether Smithsonian and Kennedy Center are covered by the (b)(1) consultation

mandate. They may be. But given the Center’s differential treatment under different statutes,

that conclusion is not a given, and DC Preservation League has not argued the point



                                                  31

---

<!-- page 32 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45        Filed 05/29/26      Page 32 of 42




comprehensively. The Court therefore cannot say that the League has established a likelihood of

success on this first score.

        Section 8722(d), by contrast, is not limited to work undertaken by federal agencies. It

applies to any “federal public buildings in the District of Columbia,” and no one disputes that the

Kennedy Center qualifies as such. The pertinent inquiry is thus whether the planned renovation

will impact the building’s “location, height, bulk, number of stories, [or] size,” or the “provision

for open space in and around” the building, in which case NCPC approval is required.

        On the available record, the League is not likely to establish that the Center has a

“crystal-clear legal duty” to submit its project to the NCPC under Section 8722(d). If a

“Complete Rebuilding” of the Center is off the table, the Court struggles to see how

infrastructural upgrades, soffit remediation, waterproofing, and other repairs will ultimately

change the building’s “height, bulk, number of stories, [or] size.” Said another way, crediting

Mr. Floca’s construction-related testimony, the Center’s footprint and overall shape and size

seem unlikely to change in a permanent manner. And DC Preservation League does not explain

why the temporary changes to the exterior of the building or grounds which naturally attend the

construction process—think, scaffolding, short-term exposure of steel, or replacement of faulty

soffits—themselves trigger NCPC review, see Reply Br. at 16 n.10; otherwise, as the Defendants

point out, Section 8722(d) would effectively cover every federal construction project. Such an

interpretation would be strange, not least because it would mean that Section 8722(d)’s tailored

approval requirement sweeps more widely than (b)(1)’s broader consultation mandate.

        As for changes in the “provision for open space in and around” the Kennedy Center

building, the League points to the planned installation of bollards and locked security doors, as

well as to landscaping upgrades and felled historic trees. See Pls.’ Suppl. Br. at 4–5. Without



                                                 32

---

<!-- page 33 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45        Filed 05/29/26       Page 33 of 42




more, these relatively limited alterations do not strike the Court as the kinds of changes that

trigger NCPC review because they do not meaningfully restrict public access to the Kennedy

Center, change its building area, or affect the ground plan. If every aesthetic landscaping

decision or minor security measure qualified as a change to a federal building’s “provision for

open space,” NCPC would surely be flooded with applications to review de minimis alterations.

       At best, it is simply not clear whether Section 8722(d) demands NCPC approval for the

scope of work that Mr. Floca has described. In light of that uncertainty, DC Preservation League

has not demonstrated a likelihood of success on its NCPC mandamus claim at this juncture.

                               c. NHPA Section 106 Claim

       DC Preservation League brings two final ultra vires claims against the Non-Agency

Defendants under the NHPA, a “chiefly procedural” statute that requires regulated parties to

“stop, look, and listen” before embarking on projects that may impact historic properties.

Tohono O’odham Nation v. U.S. Dep’t of the Interior, 138 F.4th 1189, 1193–94 (9th Cir. 2025)

(cleaned up); see also Ill. Com. Comm’n v. ICC, 848 F.2d 1246, 1261 (D.C. Cir. 1988). The

League brings its first NHPA claim under Section 106 of the Act, which provides:

       The head of any Federal agency having direct or indirect jurisdiction over a
       proposed Federal or federally assisted undertaking in any State and the head of any
       Federal department or independent agency having authority to license any
       undertaking, prior to the approval of the expenditure of any Federal funds on the
       undertaking or prior to the issuance of any license, shall take into account the effect
       of the undertaking on any historic property. The head of the Federal agency shall
       afford the [ACHP] a reasonable opportunity to comment with regard to the
       undertaking.

54 U.S.C. § 306108.

       All else equal, the Kennedy Center renovation project would likely trigger the historic

preservation review processes mandated by Section 106. The Center is a “historic property”

because it is “eligible for inclusion” on the National Register of Historic Places. See id. §


                                                 33

---

<!-- page 34 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45       Filed 05/29/26      Page 34 of 42




300308 (defining “historic property”); see generally D.C. State Historic Preservation Office,

Determination of Eligibility Report (Feb. 13, 2012),

https://parkplanning.nps.gov/document.cfm?documentID=45798 [https://perma.cc/Z4XH-

CD8Q]. And the construction planned for the Center qualifies as an “undertaking” because it

will be “carried out with Federal financial assistance,” in the form of a large Congressional

appropriation. See 54 U.S.C. § 300320 (defining “undertaking”).

       The catch is that Section 106 only imposes obligations on the head of a “Federal agency”

or, alternatively, the head of a “Federal department or independent agency” with licensing

authority. See, e.g., Sheridan Kalorama Hist. Ass’n v. Christopher, 49 F.3d 750, 755 (D.C. Cir.

1995); Lee v. Thornburgh, 877 F.2d 1053, 1056–57 (D.C. Cir. 1989); Kingman Park Civic Ass’n

v. Gray, 956 F. Supp. 2d 230, 251 (D.D.C. 2013). The Kennedy Center has no licensing

authority. And it is not a “Federal agency” because the NHPA has adopted the APA’s definition

of “agency,” 54 U.S.C. § 300301, and the D.C. Circuit has held that the Smithsonian is not an

agency for APA purposes, see Dong, 125 F.3d 877 at 883. Whether because the Kennedy Center

is a “bureau” of the Smithsonian, or because the logic of Dong naturally applies to the Center,

binding Circuit precedent seems to foreclose an understanding of the Kennedy Center as a

“Federal agency” for Section 106 purposes.

       Perhaps recognizing this oversight, Congress enacted the Smithsonian Facilities

Authorization Act (“SFAA”) in 2003, which states in relevant part that

       [I]n carrying out other projects in the District of Columbia which are subject to the
       review and approval of the National Capital Planning Commission in accordance
       with section 16 of the Act of June 20, 1938 (sec. 6–641.15, D.C. Official Code), the
       Smithsonian Institution shall be deemed to be an agency for purposes of compliance
       with regulations promulgated by the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
       pursuant to section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470f).




                                                34

---

<!-- page 35 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC            Document 45        Filed 05/29/26      Page 35 of 42




Pub. L. No. 108-72, § 3(c)(2), 117 Stat. 888, 889 (2003) (emphasis added). This language is not

the model of legislative clarity. But it is fairly understood to subject to Section 106 review all

Smithsonian projects that must be reviewed and approved by the NCPC, pursuant to D.C. Code §

6-641.15. That provision of the D.C. Code, in turn, mirrors Section 8722(d) in requiring that

“the location, height, bulk, number of stories, and size of federal public buildings in the District

of Columbia and the provision for open space in and around the same will be subject to the

approval of the [NCPC].” D.C. Code § 6-641.15.

       In plainer English: when the Smithsonian constructs or alters federal public buildings in a

manner that affects their location, height, bulk, number of stories, size, and surrounding open

space, its plans are subject to NCPC approval. And under the SFAA, Smithsonian projects

submitted for NCPC approval must also be reviewed in accordance with Section 106 and its

implementing regulations.11 Even though the Kennedy Center is in some ways institutionally

independent from the Smithsonian, see 20 U.S.C. §§ 42, 76k(e), the Court sees no reason why

the Kennedy Center, as a “bureau” of the Smithsonian, 20 U.S.C. § 76h(a)(1), would not be

covered by the SFAA.12


       11
          Separately, the Smithsonian and NCPC have entered into a Memorandum of
Agreement that confirms that the “Smithsonian must comply with Section 106 of the NHPA for
those projects it submits to NCPC for review and approval in the District.” Mot. for Prelim. Inj.,
Ex. 35 at 3.
       12
         The Defendants suggest that Section 76k(e) of the Kennedy Center’s organic statute
precludes the application of the SFAA to this “unique[ly] independen[t]” bureau. Opp. Br. at 22.
That argument is unavailing.

        Section 76k(e) provides that the “actions of the Board relating to performing arts and to
payments made or directed to be made by the Board from any trust funds shall not be subject to
review by any officer or agency other than a court of law.” Whatever actions this provision
insulates from external review—i.e., whether it applies to any action relating to trust fund
payments or only those actions related to performing arts and trust fund payments, given the
conjunctive connector—the Court is not persuaded that it supersedes external planning
requirements, including the one posed by the SFAA. There are, after all, several sections of the

                                                 35

---

<!-- page 36 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45       Filed 05/29/26      Page 36 of 42




       Where does this interpretive maze leave us? As the Court has already concluded, the

Kennedy Center is not likely to succeed in demonstrating that the renovations will affect the

buildings on the campus along any of the aforementioned vectors, at least in a permanent

manner. Because the project as currently conceptualized likely need not be approved by the

NCPC, it is also not subject to the Section 106 process because the SFAA expressly links these

two forms of regulatory review.

       The Court acknowledges that this statutory quirk renders the Kennedy Center virtually

unique among federal public buildings and presidential memorials in the District of Columbia in

its partial insulation from Section 106 review. Without subjecting the planned renovation project

to external consultation, Kennedy Center staff and the Board—rather than the experts in historic

preservation who comprise the ACHP—become the final arbiters of historic significance. The

consequences of this statutory loophole are cause for concern.

       Take, for instance, the marble panels and walls that contributed to the Kennedy Center’s

designation as eligible for the National Register of Historic Places. See D.C. State Historic

Preservation Office, Determination of Eligibility Report at 10–13. When it was originally built,

the Center received gifts from many foreign countries. See Mot. for Prelim. Inj., Ex. 4 at 16–17

(official Kennedy Center blog post regarding the Center’s historical development). Among them



organic statute that impose external agency review on Board conduct. See, e.g., 20 U.S.C. §
76i(a) (requiring that the Kennedy Center building be constructed “in accordance with plans and
specifications approved by the Commission of Fine Arts”); id. § 76j(a)(2)(F) (“No change in the
management and operation of the grounds may be made without the express approval of
Congress and of the Secretary of the Interior”); id. § 76k(g) (making “plans” and “projects to
improve pedestrian and vehicular access” “[s]ubject to the approval of the Secretary of the
Interior”); id. § 76l(d) (subjecting the “functions of the Board funded by [appropriated] funds” to
the oversight of the Inspector General of the Smithsonian). Section 76k(e) is simply no answer
to a later-enacted and more specific statute subjecting the Smithsonian—and by extension, the
Kennedy Center—to historic preservation review under certain circumstances.


                                                36

---

<!-- page 37 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC            Document 45          Filed 05/29/26   Page 37 of 42




were approximately 3,700 tons of marble from the Italian government. Id. The marble was

collected from three quarries, including the Bufalini family’s quarry in Carrara, and “transported

across the Atlantic Ocean in over a dozen shipments.” Id. A 1963 letter of gratitude from then-

Board Chairman Robert Stevens to the Italian ambassador explained that he could “think of no

greater contribution” to the building’s design and construction “than that [its] walls, floors and

paving . . . should bear permanent testimony, both to [Italy’s] gracious generosity and to the

excellence of one of [its] national products.” Id. Stevens pledged that the “resource” would

“constitute a vital part” of the Center “for all time to come.” Id.

       President Trump has stated to the press that the Kennedy Center will only keep “some of

the marble,” and “some of the marble” will “come[] down” during renovations. Mot. for Prelim.

Inj., Ex. 30 at 3. He has also stated that the Center has “already purchased a lot of [new]

marble.” March 16 Press Conf. Tr. at 15–16. Yet as DC Preservation League points out, a “like-

for-like exchange of building features and materials”—even if specialized materials like the

gifted Italian marble could be matched and purchased today—does not necessarily preserve the

historic character of the property. Pls.’ Suppl. Br. at 6.

       There are other concerning examples of the Defendants’ apparent disregard for the

Kennedy Center’s historic features. By the Center’s own institutional admission, it has long

been “known for its . . . golden pillars.” Mot. for Prelim. Inj., Ex. 4 at 2. The columns and

another important feature—the Center’s willow trees—were key contributors to its eligibility for

the National Register. See D.C. State Historic Preservation Office, Determination of Eligibility

Report at 10–13. But last year, the columns were painted white overnight, and the willows are

poised to be replaced with a different species. These changes seem based purely on the personal

preferences of President Trump and Mr. Floca. See Mot. for Prelim. Inj., Ex. 34 at 6 (CNN



                                                  37

---

<!-- page 38 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45        Filed 05/29/26       Page 38 of 42




Politics article) (President Trump opining that “[the columns] look[] so much better. Before they

had the steel painted gold, and the gold was very cheap. . . . We got rid of the gold columns,

which was always terrible—they looked cheap and they looked fake.”); Hr’g Tr. at 28:17–19

(Floca testifying that “[President Trump and I] haven’t specifically talked about the weeping

willows or the replacement. I think that a weeping cherry tree would be perfect.”).

       When pressed on the alterations, Mr. Floca posited that the “historical significance [of the

columns] is not the[ir] color,” but instead their “low overhang” and “slender nature,” Hr’g Tr. at

33:13–15, and “going from a weeping willow to a weeping cherry” would not qualify as a

“material change to the exterior,” id. 29:2–3. Scores of architects and historians who have

attested to the historical significance of these and other unique finishes would surely disagree.

See generally Mot. for Prelim. Inj., Exs. 42, 44, 47, 48, 49, 54, 55, 58, 60 (sworn declarations

from members of Plaintiff associations).

       One therefore wonders what other design and architectural changes will be explained

away as immaterial during the forthcoming renovation. These impromptu changes to historic

features of the Center underscore the importance of the Section 106 consultation process, which,

although “limited” in “reach,” is “aimed” at “discouraging” federal officials from entirely

“ignoring preservation values” in their construction projects. Lee, 877 F.2d at 1056. The

possibility of under-informed but irreversible alterations to historic property also highlights why

preservation review should happen “before” the responsible officials “undertak[e] a course of

action.” Solenex, LLC v. Haaland, 626 F. Supp. 3d 110, 115 (D.D.C. 2022) (emphasis added);

see also City of Grapevine, Tex. v. DOT, 17 F.3d 1502, 1509 (D.C. Cir. 1994) (recognizing the

“desir[e] for the § 106 process to occur as early as possible in a project’s planning stage”).




                                                 38

---

<!-- page 39 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC             Document 45         Filed 05/29/26   Page 39 of 42




        Nevertheless, the Court’s hands are tied. This Kennedy Center renovation project

occupies a sort of historic preservation no-man’s-land. The Center is not a federal agency, which

would bring it within the NHPA’s direct ambit. And reading Section 106 and the SFAA

together, not all construction work on the Kennedy Center site triggers preservation review. The

scope of the project that Mr. Floca has described under oath appears to fall outside that purview.

        The Court is not at liberty to stretch these admittedly convoluted statutes beyond their

limits. And even if viable alternative constructions of these statutes could bring the Center’s

renovation within Section 106’s coverage, it remains difficult to conclude that the Center has

“disregard[ed] a specific and unambiguous statutory directive” in sidestepping the historic

preservation process on the project, at least in its currently understood scope. FedEx, 39 F.4th at

764 (cleaned up).13 As that is the standard the DC Preservation League must satisfy to succeed

on its ultra vires claim, it has not carried its burden here.14


        13
           To be sure, other Smithsonian projects of seemingly comparable magnitude have been
submitted for NCPC and Section 106 review in the past. See, e.g., Mot. for Prelim. Inj. at 30
n.14 (citing renovations at the National Air and Space Museum and to the Smithsonian
Institution Castle that were submitted to the NCPC). Those filings strongly suggest that formally
submitting renovation plans to the NCPC and ACHP would be the most responsible course of
action here. Yet the Court lacks sufficient information to conclude that those projects and the
one challenged here are so similar as to justify an apples-to-apples comparison. More
fundamentally, although past government practice may sometimes aid in liquidating statutory
meaning, see, e.g., Learning Res. v. Trump, 146 S. Ct. 628, 640 (2026), the Smithsonian’s prior
voluntary submissions do not in and of themselves signal that Section 106 and the SFAA issue a
“specific [statutory] command” bearing on a project of the present scope. FedEx, 39 F.4th at 764
(cleaned up).
        14
          The League posits that the plaintiffs “are not limited to an ultra vires claim to enforce
Defendants’ Section 106 obligations.” Pls.’ Suppl. Br. at 5 n.5. It argues that “because the
SFAA makes the Smithsonian (and the Kennedy Center) an agency for purposes of Section 106,
and Section 106 agencies are subject to the APA, Plaintiffs may assert violations of the NHPA
through the APA’s framework.” Id. The Court is not persuaded by this transitive argument.
The SFAA “deem[s]” the Smithsonian an “agency for purposes of compliance with regulations
promulgated by the [ACHP] pursuant to section 106,” under certain circumstances. But this
careful formulation does not redefine “agency” for APA purposes, just because Section 106
otherwise adopts the APA’s definition of “agency.” The Court is loath to imply the availability

                                                   39

---

<!-- page 40 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC             Document 45       Filed 05/29/26      Page 40 of 42




                                d. NHPA Section 110(k) Claim

        DC Preservation League’s final claim invokes a lesser-cited provision of the NHPA,

Section 110(k), which requires “[e]ach [f]ederal agency” to “ensure that”:

        the agency will not grant a loan, loan guarantee, permit, license, or other assistance
        to an applicant that, with intent to avoid the requirements of [Section 106], has
        intentionally significantly adversely affected a historic property to which the grant
        would relate, or having legal power to prevent it, has allowed the significant adverse
        effect to occur, unless the agency, after consultation with the [ACHP], determines
        that circumstances justify granting the assistance despite the adverse effect created
        or permitted by the applicant.

54 U.S.C. § 306113.

        The probability of success on this count is slim because the claim is premature. By its

terms, Section 110(k) contemplates that an “applicant” has applied for some “loan, loan

guarantee, permit, license, or other assistance,” and that the federal agency charged with issuing

or disbursing that assistance must withhold it based on the applicant’s intentional disregard for

Section 106. Even if the Court were to assume that the Kennedy Center has “intentionally

significantly adversely affected a historic property”—for instance, by painting the Center’s gold

columns white or altering its façade by adding President Trump’s name to the front portico—the

Center has not applied for any form of assistance from another federal agency, and no agency

has yet granted a form of assistance it is barred from granting. As a result, consistent with the

analysis as to the Agency Defendants above, see supra at Section III.A, and notwithstanding

what might transpire in the future, the Court cannot conclude that Section 110(k) has been

clearly “violat[ed],” Pls.’ Suppl. Br. at 6.




of an APA cause of action in such an oblique manner, especially where the D.C. Circuit has held
such a cause of action to be otherwise unavailable against institutions like the Smithsonian.


                                                 40

---

<!-- page 41 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC           Document 45        Filed 05/29/26      Page 41 of 42




 IV. Conclusion

       Like its parent the Smithsonian Institution, the Kennedy Center is an “odd federal bird.”

Raven, 334 F. Supp. 3d at 29. It has both governmental and non-governmental qualities. That

hybrid character leads to some likewise odd, and perhaps unintended, results. One such

consequence is that the Center’s planned construction project—which is of substantial, though

perhaps not entirely transformative, magnitude—does not plainly trigger the kinds of planning

obligations it otherwise might. Another is that, because the Center does not qualify as an agency

for APA purposes, DC Preservation League must overcome more exacting standards imposed by

ultra vires and mandamus review. Those standards are not likely satisfied here, based on the

available record.

       Though confident in its conclusions, the Court would note that this case presents

interpretive questions of first impression raised by an interlocking set of unwieldy capital

planning statutes. These questions have been served to the Court on a less-than-silver platter:

with murky facts, in a preliminary injunction posture, and by way of demanding claims that

require more legislative clarity than might otherwise be required. As a result, this opinion does

not purport to answer the novel interpretive questions presented in a definitive manner.

       The Court further emphasizes that its factual findings are necessarily preliminary and

“may be revisited down the road, especially to the extent the . . . circumstances change.” Beatty,

2026 WL 712814, at *2 (cleaned up). If the construction work does implicate the jurisdiction of

one or more of the Agency Defendants, the APA claims against them may have force. If it turns

out that Mr. Floca’s sworn representations cannot be relied upon or the scope of the construction

project changes, such factual developments may undermine the foundation on which the Court’s




                                                41

---

<!-- page 42 -->
Case 1:26-cv-00981-CRC            Document 45        Filed 05/29/26      Page 42 of 42




preliminary legal analyses have rested. In other words, “[t]entative conclusions made now may

not harden into settled judgments later.” Id. at *17.

       The Court closes by observing that the paucity of public information about the Kennedy

Center’s renovation plans could frustrate continued adjudication of this dispute; it is difficult to

assess the legality of an illusory target, and the Defendants may not play keep-away in order to

evade either judicial or regulatory review. The Court also encourages the Defendants to consider

voluntary consultation and review with relevant historic preservation and regulatory authorities,

even though it may not be legally required. After all, no one should dispute the importance of

renovating the Center in a manner that befits its historic pedigree and honors President Kennedy

in the most thoughtful way possible.

       The Court will, accordingly, direct the parties to meet and confer in good faith to discuss

appropriate next steps in this proceeding. Within seven days of this ruling, they shall file a joint

status report with their proposals, which should address the potential submission of status reports

to elucidate the scope and timing of the Kennedy Center renovation project, as well as any

efforts by the Center to engage in regulatory review and permitting, voluntarily or otherwise.

       Meanwhile, the Court will DENY Plaintiffs’ Motion for a Preliminary Injunction for the

reasons stated above. A separate Order shall accompany this Memorandum Opinion.




                                                              CHRISTOPHER R. COOPER
                                                              United States District Judge

Date: May 29, 2026




                                                 42