Farmers call for diesel relief to offset record-high costs - Brownfield Ag News

News
Farmers call for diesel relief to offset record-high costs
A growing number of states across the country are taking action to help farmers mitigate record fuel costs during harvest.
Michigan Farm Bureau President Ben LaCross says allowing producers to use red-dyed diesel off the farm can immediately provide relief.
“Indiana has done it,” he shares. “Nebraska has done it. Louisiana has done it. I think Minnesota has as well, several others, and I would expect as the days go on, other states are going to follow suit.”
LaCross tells Brownfield, “Most of our farmers already have a lot of dyed diesel in on-farm storage.”
“This would just allow them to use that product for more applications,” he says. “It’s not going to save farmers a massive amount of money, but it will provide some critical relief.”
Nearly 20 Michigan agricultural organizations are urging Governor Gretchen Whitmer to declare a statewide State of Energy Emergency and allow dyed diesel fuel in highway vehicles registered for agricultural or forest product use for a 90-day period.
Missouri and South Dakota are allowing farmers to operate with increased over-the-road weight limits and lifting some dyed diesel restrictions. Ohio is implementing a 90-day state gas and diesel tax suspension.
In a social media post Friday morning, the White House says Europe has just agreed to immediately release a massive amount of diesel oil stocks. More actions are also expected by President Trump soon.
Leaders of G7 nations on Friday announced a coordinated effort to stabilize energy supplies. Plans include releasing as much as 100 million barrels of diesel and crude stocks over the next four months. A substantial diesel release is expected within the first 20 days, and global production increases are being encouraged. The group is also calling for an immediate and full restoration of rights through the Strait of Hormuz.
Grand Rapids-based fuel distributor Crystal Flash says Michigan highway diesel was $6.71 for delivery last week, compared to off-road dyed diesel at $5.95 per gallon, up nearly 96 percent from six months ago.