Scripps News interview with Agriculture Secretary Brooke Rollins, October 2, 2026.
Closed captions embedded in the video, flattened. Speaker changes are marked by the caption time they begin.

00:00:01,759
Michael Berg, Scripps News group.

00:00:05,880
There is hope on the horizon, but will it come soon enough? President Trump saying he has reached the agreement with the G 7 to bring down the sky-high price of diesel fuel. The g-seven saying they plan to release 100 million barrels of oil and fuel products in the coming weeks. These are recently hit those record-high prices in the U.S. Agriculture Secretary Brooke Rollins joins us live now from the White House. Secretary Rollins, good to see Farmers and truckers, as you know, bang near record prices for diesel. Right now. We estimate $6.37, a gallon how quickly will this release actually bring down prices at the pump? Well, first of all, do it’s great to be on with you again. It is a beautiful day here in Washington.

00:00:48,290
The diesel is on everyone’s mind. The announcement that came out earlier today with 100 million barrels that will be headed this way very, very soon. fact, I think they’re moving out right now. Should give some fairly significant relief to the diesel prices, a fuel for I’m really focused on our farmers. But you’re right, our truckers as well. We are in the middle of harvest season. The diesel price makes a huge difference in terms of profitability. So so this action taken by the president with the with our allies overseas to make sure that we’re getting more into the supply system is coming at a really, really important time. I will note as well, though, we have been talking to a lot of the states. I’m sure you’ve seen this Louisiana, Oklahoma, Texas, Alabama, Nebraska and several others I think came online in the last day or 2 on the dyed diesel question, which also should cut 10 to 20% off of the the top of the price per gallon right now. So we’re making a lot of moves here in the short term. The long-term, of course, the president’s energy independence agenda remains paramount to solving this. So we’re not as reliant on Russia and other countries for our diesel and to make sure that this doesn’t happen again. Secretary Rollins, the even the president admits this might

00:02:01,146
Robbing Peter to pay. Paul are part guess to say Peter built. Take a listen to what he had to say on this issue.

00:02:10,804
you know, I mean, I think it’s something that we think about it. We talk about every day, but it just seems that it would have and negative impact gasoline so that that would go up a little bit easily come down a little And we think in a very good place is going to start to come.

00:02:26,137
can you tell Americans that this will not lead to higher prices at the pump for gasoline? In other words, diesel prices will come down. But even the American Petroleum Institute saying that this is a is a short-term fix that could have bad consequences at the pump.

00:02:40,836
Well, another is a lot of concern about a ban and a diesel export ban. I think that was part of the conversation this morning with the president, the different teams. I will be very, very frank in that I’m the secretary of agriculture, not energy, and I’m I’m certainly not in any of these conversations. But what I do know is this that this decision today will bring the cost of diesel down for the short short term allowing more supply. Of course, that’s just general economics. The dyed diesel part of this is a very, very important piece as well. But the longer term, you know, that the president has said over and over and over again, the fact that we are keeping Iran from having a nuclear weapon, you know, a country that will annihilate 50,000 of its own people without even batting an eye. That is not a country. We want to have a nuclear weapon that there will be some short-term challenges because of that. And I think that’s what we’re seeing with the cost of diesel. But even if you think about Dale, the fertilizer, you know, that was such a big issue when the conflict began, that there was a massive concern that we have fertilizer shortage is certainly the price spikes with fertilizer. But what you’ve seen is and administration, that is one area that I do lead on as fertilizer. We’re still and really at below at the same number, roughly below where we were with fertilizer before the conflict began. And by the way, we’re about half of what we were on the price of fertilizer during the Joe Biden highs during his administration while at the same time we’re reshoring back to America. What we had off short in terms of fertilizer over the last number of decades, we just broke ground on what will be the largest ammonia plant in the world a few weeks ago. So all good news for the long term. For the short term we’re going to do everything we can to make sure that this is as painless as possible, but a fully understand, especially the cost of diesel, especially right now during harvest season. That’s why the president is being very aggressive to solve for all of the short-term issues.

00:04:35,016
But by some estimates, it may take 20 days for the prices at the pump to go down because of what the G 7 and the White House are doing right now. You’re right. We’re in harvest season. Farmers are saying they can’t wait. So what do they do in the short haul? Because if you think about filling up a truck as opposed to filling up a car. It’s twice as much as what they were paying just this time when when the president took office.

00:04:59,458
Well, to your point, I mean, I think will begin. I know some people are speculating 20 days. Others are saying it will be much, much, much quicker. I think will begin to see it very quickly within the next couple of days. And and when you look at this in the broader context and again, not taking anything away from the fact that diesel is high, the highest on record, as I mentioned, is gonna start coming down with all of these actions. But you also look at we are at the highest price in 3 years for the for our corn farmers are soybean farmers. Are we farmers? The one big beautiful bill. The President’s working Families, Tax cut Act basically had the almost most at least a lot of the farm bill in it. We have the highest reference prices that we’ve ever had after having no in action for 10 years on reference prices. And the reason that’s important for your non farmer audience is those are the numbers that allows us to push more money into farm country in the billions of dollars. So farmers are going to again seeing those checks around. What really about right now is going October 1st. But that was a couple of days ago. So, you know, and as you know, to have 100% expensing, all of the work we’ve done a bio fuels for the Midwest. The cost of inputs, as I mentioned, gas is an outlier, but even fertilizers coming down, labor has come down. So we know we have a lot more work to do. We know that the Iranian conflict has caused some volatility that we were hopeful would have happened. I mean, again, before the Iranian conflict, diesel was half of what it is today. Just think about what a massive when that is based off what we inherited almost 2 years ago with some of the highest prices on record. So we’re making a lot of good steps in the right direction. And the president says this conflict would hopefully be over soon. We’ll get back to business as normal and you’ll see gas prices. Absolutely down in a massive way. Very quickly.

00:06:45,180
Secretary, do you have to go? But 1, 1, final question. Some people the 6 are going to say why now? Why is it now on the eve of the midterm elections that this is happening with the G 7 with trying to lower diesel prices it could have been anticipated on day one of the war with Iran that this was going to her diesel prices. It was gonna hurt gas prices going to hurt fertilizer because the Strait of Hormuz

00:07:10,138
well, again, you know, you’re saying the cynics are saying this is an election or maybe a political driven decision. But what I will say is this high cost of diesel while it certainly has been climbing, this is really very recent to mean the we’ve been we’ve been in this conflict now for for since the spring, when the fertilizer prices strike went way up and we were worried about not having a fertilizer. We immediately acted. And that was 6 months from an election or maybe 8 months from an election. and in doing so. All of these actions we took on fertilizer, not just for the short term, but for the long term have made a significant difference. We’re not out of the woods yet, but we’re very, very close. So for those cynics, they’re saying, well, the president is doing this because there’s an election that stuff, you know, 30 days away or or so that just couldn’t be further from the truth. This president will act and move and be aggressive on any massive challenges that are facing the American people. We’re putting America first. We’re not afraid to think outside the box. We are not afraid to break up the status quo. And I think this administration has proven that over and over and over again. Secure borders, the lowest crime rate in history on record books. More people working than ever before in the history of our country. The lowest poverty rates that we have ever seen. All. What a million new jobs in the last year. So not one of those is a new government job. In fact, we have struck in the size of the government footprint down to 1960’s level because we putting just horsepower and and and supercharging the private economy, which is what our founding fathers envisioned when they fought for Liberty 250 years ago. That’s what we’re doing every day. I couldn’t be more proud of this work again. We know we have some some more progress to be made for the American people. And we will never stop fighting. Agriculture Secretary Brooke Rollins, secretary, thanks for being
