

  
    

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

  
  
  
  

  
  
  

  
  
  

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

  
  

    
    

    

    FEC | Candidate | Recording receipts

    

  
    
  

    
    
    
  

  
    
      Your web browser is not supported

      This site uses features that are not supported by this browser. For a better experience, please switch to a modern browser.

    

    

    

    

    
    skip navigation
     
    
    
  

    
    
  
    Here's how you know
      
      An official website of the United States government

      Here's how you know

    

    
      
        
        
          
            Official websites use .gov
            

            A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
          

        

      

      
        
        
          
            Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
            

            A lock ( LockA locked padlock ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
          

        

      

    

  

    
    
      
        

        Federal Election Commission | United States of America
        
          Calendar

           Glossary

          
            
              
              
              
              Search
              
                
                
                  Search
                
              

            
          

        
      

      
 Menu
  
    
      Menu

      
        
          Home
        
      

      
        
          
          Campaign finance data
        
        
  
    
      
         

        
          
            All data

            Raising

            Spending

            Loans and debts

            Filings and reports

            Candidates

            Committees

            Bulk data

            Campaign finance statistics

          
        

        
          
            Find elections. Search by state or ZIP code

          

          
             Look up contributions from specific individuals

          

        

      

    

  

      

      
        
          Help for candidates and committees
        
        
  
    
      
         

        
          
            All compliance resources

            Guides

            Forms

            Dates and deadlines

            Trainings

          
        

        
          
            Learn about electronic filing

          

          
             Find and contact your committee's analyst

          

        

      

    

  

      

      
        
          Legal resources
        
        
  
    
      
         

        
          
            All legal resources

            Advisory opinions

            Enforcement

            Statutes

            Legislation

            Regulations and rulemakings
            

            Court cases

            Policy and other guidance

          
        

        
          
            Search across legal resources

          

          
            Search guidance documents

          

        

      

    

  

      

      
        
          About
        
        
  
    
      
         

        
          
            All about the FEC

            News and announcements

            Commission meetings

            Mission and history

            Leadership and structure

            Reports about the FEC

            Careers

            Working with the FEC

            Contact

          
        

        
          
            Introduction to campaign finance and elections

          

        

      

    

  

      

    
  

  Federal Election Commission | United States of America

    
    

    
      

  

  
    Home

    
      
      
    
      
      
    
      
      
        ›
        Help for candidates and committees
      

      
      
    
      
      
        ›
        Keeping records
      

      
      
    

    
    

    
      ›
      Recording receipts
    

  

  
    Recording receipts

    
        

  
    With respect to receipts, the Federal Election Campaign Act (the Act) requires reporting of all receipts, but requires recordkeeping only for contributions. Nevertheless, a candidate committee must keep records for all types of receipts in order to comply with the reporting requirements of the Act and FEC regulations. The committee must maintain the following information for contributions of any amount and should maintain these records for other receipts:
Amount received;
Date of receipt; and
Name and address of source.

  

  
  
    
      READ NEXT

      
        
          
            
             Taking in receipts

            
             Recording disbursements

            
             Recording debts and loans

            
             Reporting examples

            
          
        
      
      
    
  

  

    

    
      

  
    
      
          
            
              Transmitting contributions
            

          
            
              Identifying contributors
            

          
            
              Possibly illegal contributions
            

          
            
              Continue learning about this topic
            

          
          
            Legal citations

          
          
      
    
  

      
        
 

  Transmitting contributions

  
  
    
  

      
      
        
        Forwarding contributions
Every person who receives contributions for a campaign must forward them to the treasurer of the candidate’s authorized committee within 10 days of receipt. The date of receipt is the date the person acting as a conduit obtains possession of a contribution.
Forwarding records
A person receiving contributions for a campaign must also forward the recordkeeping information along with the contributions.

No commingling
Campaign receipts must not be commingled with personal funds of any individual, such as by depositing contributions in a personal account.

        
      

      

    
    

  
  

  Identifying contributors

  
  
    
  

      
      
        
        Contributions of $50 or less
In advisory opinions, the Commission has recommended two possible accounting methods that satisfy recordkeeping requirements for contributions of $50 or less:
Keep the same information required for identifying contributions that exceed $50 (amount, date of receipt and contributor’s name and mailing address); or
In the case of small contributions collected at a fundraiser (such as gate receipts and cash contributions), keep records of the name of the event, the date and the total amount of contributions received on each day of the event.
Contributions exceeding $50
Records must identify each contribution of more than $50 by:
Amount;
Date of receipt; and
Contributor’s name and mailing address.
Furthermore, political committees must maintain a record of each contribution received. A record of a contribution by check or written instrument must contain an image of that instrument. A record of the receipt of a contribution must include sufficient information to associate that contribution with its deposit in the political committee’s campaign depository, such as, for example, a batch number.
Contributions aggregating over $200
For each contribution that exceeds $200, either by itself or when added to the contributor’s previous contributions made during the same calendar year, records must identify that contribution by:
Amount;
Date of receipt; and
Contributor’s full name and mailing address, occupation and employer.
If a person has already contributed an aggregate amount of over $200 during a calendar year, each subsequent contribution, regardless of amount, must be identified in the same way.
Please note that contributions to authorized committees are aggregated on a calendar-year basis for recordkeeping purposes, but are aggregated on a per-election basis for purposes of monitoring contribution limits, and on an election-cycle basis for reporting purposes.

        
      

      
      
        
        

Learn more about best efforts to document receipts

        
      

      
      
        
        Distinguishing between primary and general contributions
If, before the primary election, a campaign receives contributions designated for the general election, it must use an acceptable accounting method to distinguish between primary contributions and general election contributions.
Acceptable accounting methods include:
Maintaining separate accounts for each election; or
Maintaining separate books and records for each election.
The committee’s records must demonstrate that, prior to the primary election, recorded cash on hand was at all times greater than or equal to the sum of general election contributions received minus the sum of general election disbursements made.
If the candidate does not advance to the general election, all general election contributions received by the committee must be refunded, redesignated or reattributed.

        
      

      
      
        
        

Learn more about how election limits work

        
      

      
      
        
        Contributions from political committees
Records must identify each contribution from a political committee, regardless of amount, by:
Amount;
Date of receipt; and
Name and address of the political committee.

        
      

      
      
        
        

  
    
      
        
          
        
      

      
        
          
            How to report
          
        
        PACs & other political committee contributions
      

    

  

        
      

      
      
        
        Lobbyist bundled contributions
Candidate committees must maintain records of any bundled contributions forwarded by or received and credited to a lobbyist/registrant or lobbyist/registrant PAC that aggregate in excess of the reporting threshold for any covered period for three years after filing.
Another type of bundled contribution covers contributions received by the candidate committee from a contributor, but credited to the lobbyist/registrant or lobbyist/registrant PAC through records, designations or other means of recognizing that a certain amount of money has been raised by the lobbyist/registrant or lobbyist/registrant PAC. In this case, the contribution must be 1) received by the candidate committee and 2) credited to a lobbyist/registrant or lobbyist/registrant PAC to satisfy the definition of bundled contribution.
Crediting recognizes that a certain amount of money has been raised by the lobbyist/registrant or lobbyist/registrant PAC. Examples of crediting include:
Maintaining records or using any method to retain written evidence pertaining to the committee’s crediting. Records include paper, electronic, digital, audio, and video records, and records in any other format, including informal items such as hand-written notations on a business card.
Providing designations and other benefits to the lobbyist/registrant or lobbyist/registrant PAC, including giving honorary titles, tracking identifiers, access or invitations to events for people who raised a certain amount of money, mementos such as photographs with the candidate and autographed copies of books authored by the candidate.

        
      

      
      
        
        

Learn more about lobbyist bundling disclosure

        
      

      
      
        
        Joint fundraiser contributions
With regard to gross proceeds, the joint fundraising representative must collect the following contributor information and later forward it to the participating political committees:
For contributions exceeding $50, the amount, date of receipt and the contributor's name and address.
For contributions exceeding $200, the amount, date of receipt and the contributor's name, address, occupation and employer.

        
      

      
      
        
        

Learn more about joint fundraising rules

        
      

      
      
        
        Designated, redesignated and reattributed contributions
A committee must retain the written copies of contributors’ designations, redesignations and reattributions.
Also, for any contributions presumptively redesignated or reattributed, the committee must retain any writings from contributors that accompany the contribution and any notices sent from the committee to the contributor.
Records of redesignations obtained electronically may be retained in a database in a manner consistent with the recordkeeping requirements for signed written redesignations under 11 CFR 110.1.

        
      

      
      
        
        

Learn more about redesignated and reattributed contributions

        
      

      

    
    

  
  

  Possibly illegal contributions

  
  
    
  

      
      
        
        When a committee has reason to question the legality of a contribution, it has specific time frames in which to clarify whether the contribution is permissible. While investigating a contribution, the committee must keep a written record noting the basis of concern for each deposited contribution which:
Requires a written redesignation and/or reattribution from the contributor; or
Requires confirmation that it is not from a prohibited source.
Joint fundraiser contributions: The joint fundraising representative must also keep a record of the total amount of prohibited contributions received, if any, and of any transfers containing prohibited funds made to participants that may accept them.

        
      

      

    
    

  
  

  Continue learning about this topic

  
  
    
  

      
      
        
        

  
  
    
      
    
    
      Joint fundraising
    
  

  
  
    
      
    
    
      Contributions
    
  

  

        
      

      

    
    

  
  

        
        
          Legal citations

          
            
  
  
    
      
        Regulations

        11 CFR 101.3
 Funds received or expended prior to becoming a candidate
11 CFR 102.15
Commingled funds
11 CFR 102.17(c)(3)(iii)
 Date of receipt for joint fundraising
11 CFR 102.17(c)(4)
 Joint fundraising procedures: Recordkeeping requirements
11 CFR 102.8
 Receipt of contributions
11 CFR 102.9
 Accounting for contributions and expenditures
11 CFR 104.7
 Best efforts to obtain, maintain and submit information required for reports
11 CFR 104.22(a)(6)(ii)(A)
 Records, designations, or other means of recognizing
11 CFR 104.22(f)
 Recordkeeping

      

    
      
        Advisory Opinions

        AO 1995-09
Operating a political committee in cyberspace
AOs 1981-48 and 1980-99
Recording contributions of $50 or less

      

    
  
  

          

        

        
      

    

  

  
    
Related topics

  
    
      
        
          
              Icon representing a question
          

          
            Get help from the FEC by phone or email
          

        
      
    

  
  

  

  
    
      This information is not intended to replace the law or to change its meaning, nor does this information create or confer any rights for or on any person or bind the Federal Election Commission or the public.

      The reader is encouraged also to consult the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended (52 U.S.C. 30101 et seq.), Commission regulations (Title 11 of the Code of Federal Regulations), Commission advisory opinions and applicable court decisions.

    

  

    

    
  

    

      
        
          
            About
          

          
            Careers
          

          
            Press
          

          
            Contact
          

        
      

      

      

      
        
          
            Privacy and security policy
          

          
            Plain language
          

          
            Accessibility statement
          

          
            Strategy, budget and performance
          

        
      

      
        
          
            No FEAR Act
          

          
            Open government
          

          
            USA.gov
          

          
            Inspector General
          

        
      

      
        
          
            FOIA
          

          
            OpenFEC API
          

          
            GitHub repository
          

          
            Release notes
          

          
            FEC.gov status
          

        
      

    

  

    
      
        
          
          Federal Election Commission

        

        
          
            
              
                The FEC's Twitter page
              

            

            
              
                The FEC's YouTube page
              

            

          
          
            Sign up for FECMail
          
        

        
          This information is produced and disseminated at U.S. taxpayer expense.

        

      

    

    
  Hide glossary
  
  Glossary

  Search terms
  
  Examples: receipt; Hybrid PAC
  
    
  

    

    
    
  
    
    

    
    

    

    
    
    

    
    
    
    
  

