                    HOUSE JOURNAL
           EIGHTY-SIXTH LEGISLATURE, REGULAR SESSION

                               PROCEEDINGS

             FIFTY-SIXTH DAY — WEDNESDAY, MAY 1, 2019
     The house met at 10:02 a.m. and was called to order by the speaker.
    The roll of the house was called and a quorum was announced present
(Recordi837).
     Present — Mr. Speaker(C); Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby;
Bailes; Beckley; Bell, C.; Bell, K.; Bernal; Biedermann; Blanco; Bohac; Bonnen;
Bowers; Buckley; Bucy; Burns; Burrows; Button; Cain; Calanni; Canales;
Capriglione; Clardy; Cole; Coleman; Collier; Cortez; Craddick; Cyrier; Darby;
Davis, S.; Davis, Y.; Dean; Deshotel; Dominguez; Dutton; Farrar; Fierro; Flynn;
Frank; Frullo; Geren; Gervin-Hawkins; Goldman; González, J.; González, M.;
Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen; Gutierrez; Harless; Harris; Hefner; Hernandez;
Herrero; Hinojosa; Holland; Howard; Huberty; Hunter; Israel; Johnson, J.D.;
Johnson, J.E.; Kacal; King, K.; King, P.; King, T.; Klick; Krause; Kuempel;
Lambert; Landgraf; Lang; Larson; Leach; Leman; Longoria; Lopez; Lozano;
Lucio; Martinez; Martinez Fischer; Metcalf; Meyer; Meza; Middleton; Miller;
Minjarez; Moody; Morales; Morrison; Muñoz; Murphy; Murr; Neave; Nevárez;
Noble; Oliverson; Ortega; Pacheco; Paddie; Parker; Patterson; Paul; Perez;
Phelan; Price; Ramos; Raney; Raymond; Reynolds; Rodriguez; Romero; Rose;
Rosenthal; Sanford; Schaefer; Shaheen; Sheffield; Sherman; Shine; Smith;
Smithee; Springer; Stephenson; Stickland; Stucky; Swanson; Talarico; Thierry;
Thompson, E.; Thompson, S.; Tinderholt; Toth; Turner, C.; Turner, J.;
VanDeaver; Vo; Walle; White; Wilson; Wray; Wu; Zedler; Zerwas; Zwiener.
     Absent, Excused — Johnson, E.
    The invocation was offered by Dr. David Higgs, pastor, First Baptist
Church, Henderson, as follows:
      Heavenly Father, we pause today to recognize your authority in our lives.
God, we are grateful for our great State of Texas and for our nation. You have
blessed us in so many ways. We certainly acknowledge you as the source of those
blessings and for those blessings we thank you. We ask for your continued
guidance and blessings upon our state. Today, I pray for these our leaders who are
gathered in this room. Lord, may you give them wisdom and guidance as they
make decisions. God, many of these decisions are extremely difficult decisions,
so please grant our leaders extraordinary wisdom from above. Thank you for their
willingness to labor in this capacity. May you bless each one of these leaders for
their service. Lord, I pray that love for another and peace would be dominant in
2552             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

 this place and all throughout our state. God, it is our prayer that with your mighty
 hand you would bless Texas and that you would meet the needs of our citizens
 here in this great state. In the name of your son, I pray these things. Amen.
       The chair recognized Representative Harris who led the house in the pledges
 of allegiance to the United States and Texas flags.
                       LEAVE OF ABSENCE GRANTED
     The following member was granted leave of absence for today because of
 important business in the district:
       E. Johnson on motion of Raymond.
          BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS ON FIRST READING
                  AND REFERRAL TO COMMITTEES
      Bills and joint resolutions were at this time laid before the house, read first
 time, and referred to committees. (See the addendum to the daily journal,
 Referred to Committees, List No. 1.)
               REGULAR ORDER OF BUSINESS SUSPENDED
      On motion of Representative Clardy and by unanimous consent, the reading
 and referral of bills was postponed until just prior to adjournment.
                               CAPITOL PHYSICIAN
      The chair recognized Representative Ortega who presented Dr.iDavid
 Palafox of El Paso as the "Doctor for the Day."
      The house welcomed Dr. Palafox and thanked him for his participation in
 the Physician of the Day Program sponsored by the Texas Academy of Family
 Physicians.
                       LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED
     Pursuant to a previous motion, the following members were granted leaves
 of absence temporarily for today to attend a meeting of the Conference
 Committee on HBi1:
       Longoria on motion of Wu.
       Walle on motion of Wu.
       (Speaker pro tempore in the chair)
                               HR 1397 - ADOPTED
                                  (by Goodwin)
      Representative Goodwin moved to suspend all necessary rules to take up
 and consider at this time HRi1397.
       The motion prevailed.
       The following resolution was laid before the house:
       HRi1397, In memory of Dr. Michael James Babineaux of Austin.
       HRi1397 was unanimously adopted by a rising vote.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                            2553

                         INTRODUCTION OF GUESTS
    The chair recognized Representative Goodwin who introduced family
 members of Dr. Michael James Babineaux.
                               HR 1287 - ADOPTED
                                   (by Harris)
      Representative Harris moved to suspend all necessary rules to take up and
 consider at this time HRi1287.
      The motion prevailed.
      The following resolution was laid before the house:
      HRi1287, In memory of Bascom William Bentley IV.
     The chair recognized Representative Harris who addressed the house,
 speaking on HRi1235 and HRi1287 as follows:
       Judge Bascom W. Bentley III now stands with the names of legendary men
 from East Texas like Marshal Chris Rogers and John H.iReagan. Judge Bentley
 was a legend in his own time, not only for his role as judge of the 369th District
 Court of Texas, where he served for nearly 30iyears, but mainly for his passion
 for our community and his family. Judge Bentley was married to his wife, Carol,
 and together they raised their children, Bonnie, William, Hunter, and our friend
 Matthew, each of whom Judge Bentley loved deeply. The judge was one of the
 most well-connected people I ever knew. He was personal friends with President
 George W. Bush, Governor Rick Perry, and countless other leaders from our great
 state and around the country. But he never used those connections for the
 betterment of himself but for the benefit of his community and for others. He was
 a deeply generous man, often inviting the homeless in Palestine to have
 Christmas dinner with him and his family. My first memory of Judge Bentley was
 when I was in the third grade and he came to speak to my class. I remember him
 inviting me to come visit him in the courtroom one day, and he said he would let
 me sit with him on the bench. I ’ve always regretted never taking him up on that
 offer. Little did I know how much he would play a part in my being in this
 chamber with you today. As I assembled the first steering committee of
 community leaders when I decided to run for this seat, Judge Bentley sat beside
 me on my left with his son Matthew on my right and Bascom ’s closest lifelong
 friend, Cliff Johnson, next to him. The next day, while backing out of his
 driveway, Judge Bentley had a heart attack and passed away on December 11,
 2017.
       As Palestine continued to mourn the loss of our beloved judge and friend,
 tragedy struck twice when the judge ’s oldest son, Bascom William Bentley IV,
 suffered a stroke just after he told his new bride, Lizzy, that he loved her and left
 for work. At the young age of 37, William passed away on April 11, 2019, one
 year and four months to the day after his father ’s passing. William and Lizzy had
 only been married for five months. William was known for his brilliance and
 accomplished more in his short life than most will in a lifetime. After getting his
 bachelor ’s and law degrees from The University of Texas, he worked in Eastern
2554             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

 Europe for several years, where he served as vice president of TransAtlantic
 Petroleum. After several years traveling the world, he moved home to Texas
 where he started his own oil and gas companies and became very successful. But
 when he met and fell in love with Lizzy, he knew it was time to come home to
 East Texas. They had just started their life together when the unthinkable
 happened. Today, we are joined in the gallery by Bascom and William ’s family
 and friends, including Lizzy Bentley; Matthew Bentley and his wife, Sallie; the
 Honorable Cliff Johnson; and the Honorable Todd Staples. Members, please join
 me in mourning the loss of two great Texans, Judge Bascom W.iBentley III and
 his son Bascom W.iBentley IV.
       HRi1287 was unanimously adopted by a rising vote.
      On motion of Representatives Kuempel, Clardy, and Ashby, the names of all
 the members of the house were added to HRi1287 as signers thereof.
                   FIVE-DAY POSTING RULE SUSPENDED
      Representative Bohac moved to suspend the five-day posting rule to allow
 the Committee on County Affairs to consider SBi2315 at 9 a.m. tomorrow in
 E2.028.
       The motion prevailed.
                              HR 990 - ADOPTED
                    (by Button, Vo, Shaheen, Wu, and Miller)
      Representative Button moved to suspend all necessary rules to take up and
 consider at this time HRi990.
       The motion prevailed.
       The following resolution was laid before the house:
      HRi990, Recognizing May 2019 as Asian American and Pacific Islander
 Heritage Month.
       HRi990 was adopted.
      On motion of Representatives Wu and Vo, the names of all the members of
 the house were added to HRi990 as signers thereof.
                         INTRODUCTION OF GUESTS
     The chair recognized Representative Button who introduced participants of
 Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month.
                      HR 1258 - PREVIOUSLY ADOPTED
                                 (by Anderson)
       The chair laid out and had read the following previously adopted resolution:
     HRi1258,iCongratulating the Baylor University women ’s basketball team
 on winning the 2019 NCAA Division I national championship.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                       2555

                        INTRODUCTION OF GUESTS
      The chair recognized Representative Anderson who introduced coaches and
 players of the Baylor University women ’s basketball team.
                      REMARKS ORDERED PRINTED
    Representative Price moved to print remarks by Representative Harris on
 HRi1235 and HRi1287.
     The motion prevailed.
                               HR 1395 - ADOPTED
                             (by Raney and Oliverson)
      Representative Raney moved to suspend all necessary rules to take up and
 consider at this time HRi1395.
     The motion prevailed.
     The following resolution was laid before the house:
      HRi1395, Recognizing the Texas A&M University Agricultural and Natural
 Resources Policy Internship Program and the Public Policy Internship Program
 and the programs ’interns for the 86th legislative session.
     HRi1395 was adopted.
     On motion of Representative Lambert, the names of all the members of the
 house were added to HRi1395 as signers thereof.
                        INTRODUCTION OF GUEST
     The chair recognized Representative Lambert who introduced Miss Texas
 Madison Fuller.
                              HCR 143 - ADOPTED
                                 (by S. Davis)
      Representative S. Davis moved to suspend all necessary rules to take up and
 consider at this time HCRi143.
     The motion prevailed.
     The following resolution was laid before the house:
      HCRi143, Designating May 1 as Texans Medical Record Checkup Day for
 a 10-year period beginning in 2019.
      HCRi143 was adopted by (Record 838): 140 Yeas, 0 Nays, 2 Present, not
 voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Beckley; Bell, C.;
 Bell, K.; Bernal; Biedermann; Blanco; Bohac; Bonnen; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy;
 Burns; Burrows; Button; Cain; Calanni; Capriglione; Clardy; Cole; Coleman;
 Collier; Cortez; Craddick; Cyrier; Darby; Davis, S.; Dean; Deshotel; Dominguez;
 Dutton; Farrar; Fierro; Flynn; Frank; Frullo; Geren; Gervin-Hawkins; Goldman;
 González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen; Gutierrez; Harless;
 Harris; Hefner; Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa; Holland; Howard; Huberty; Israel;
2556             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

 Johnson, J.D.; Johnson, J.E.; Kacal; King, K.; King, P.; King, T.; Klick; Krause;
 Kuempel; Lambert; Landgraf; Lang; Larson; Leach; Leman; Lopez; Lozano;
 Lucio; Martinez; Martinez Fischer; Metcalf; Meyer; Meza; Middleton; Miller;
 Minjarez; Morales; Morrison; Muñoz; Murphy; Murr; Neave; Nevárez; Noble;
 Oliverson; Ortega; Pacheco; Paddie; Parker; Patterson; Paul; Perez; Phelan; Price;
 Ramos; Raney; Raymond; Rodriguez; Romero; Rose; Rosenthal; Sanford;
 Schaefer; Shaheen; Sheffield; Sherman; Shine; Smith; Smithee; Springer;
 Stephenson; Stickland; Stucky; Swanson; Talarico; Thierry; Thompson, E.;
 Thompson, S.; Tinderholt; Toth; Turner, C.; Turner, J.; VanDeaver; Vo; Wilson;
 Wray; Wu; Zedler; Zerwas; Zwiener.
       Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Moody(C).
       Absent, Excused — Johnson, E.
       Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Longoria; Walle.
       Absent — Canales; Davis, Y.; Hunter; Reynolds; White.
                               STATEMENT OF VOTE
      When Record No. 838 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted yes.
                                                                          Y. Davis
                                HR 1317 - ADOPTED
                                    (by Talarico)
      Representative Talarico moved to suspend all necessary rules to take up and
 consider at this time HRi1317.
       The motion prevailed.
       The following resolution was laid before the house:
       HRi1317, Recognizing May 1, 2019, as Hutto Day at the State Capitol.
       HRi1317 was adopted.
     On motion of Representative Bucy, the names of all the members of the
 house were added to HRi1317 as signers thereof.
                         INTRODUCTION OF GUESTS
     The chair recognized Representative Talarico who introduced a delegation
 from Hutto.
                    HRi940 - INTRODUCTION OF GUESTS
      The chair recognized Representative Wu who introduced representatives of
 the Asian Real Estate Association of America.
                                HR 1454 - ADOPTED
                                    (by Y. Davis)
      Representative Y. Davis moved to suspend all necessary rules to take up and
 consider at this time HRi1454.
       The motion prevailed.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019        HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                       2557

     The following resolution was laid before the house:
     HR 1454, Commending Rob Franke for his service as mayor of Cedar Hill.
     HR 1454 was adopted.
                  HRi1000 - INTRODUCTION OF GUESTS
      The chair recognized Representative Goldman who introduced coaches of
 the Texas Christian University rifle team.
                             HCR 165 - ADOPTED
                               (by Craddick)
      Representative Craddick moved to suspend all necessary rules to take up
 and consider at this time HCRi165.
     The motion prevailed.
     The following resolution was laid before the house:
       HCR 165, Congratulating Ramona Aytes Thomas of Midland on her
 retirement as CEO of PermiaCare.
     HCR 165 was adopted.
                             HR 1291 - ADOPTED
                                 (by Dutton)
      Representative S. Thompson moved to suspend all necessary rules to take up
 and consider at this time HRi1291.
     The motion prevailed.
     The following resolution was laid before the house:
     HR 1291, Congratulating Mamie Frank Lewis of Barrett Station on her
 102nd birthday.
     HR 1291 was adopted.
                         EMERGENCY CALENDAR
                             SENATE BILLS
                            THIRD READING
     The following bills were laid before the house and read third time:
                        SB 2 ON THIRD READING
                      (Burrows, et al. - House Sponsors)
      SB 2, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to ad valorem taxation;
 authorizing fees.
     SBi2 was passed by (Record 839): 109 Yeas, 36 Nays, 2 Present, not voting.
     Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Bell, C.; Bell, K.;
 Biedermann; Blanco; Bohac; Bonnen; Buckley; Burns; Burrows; Button; Cain;
 Calanni; Canales; Capriglione; Clardy; Coleman; Collier; Craddick; Cyrier;
 Darby; Davis, S.; Dean; Deshotel; Dominguez; Dutton; Farrar; Fierro; Flynn;
 Frank; Frullo; Geren; Goldman; González, J.; González, M.; Guerra; Guillen;
2558             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

 Gutierrez; Harless; Harris; Hefner; Hernandez; Holland; Huberty; Hunter;
 Johnson, J.D.; Kacal; King, K.; King, P.; Klick; Krause; Kuempel; Lambert;
 Landgraf; Lang; Larson; Leach; Leman; Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Metcalf; Meyer;
 Middleton; Miller; Morrison; Muñoz; Murphy; Murr; Noble; Oliverson; Pacheco;
 Paddie; Parker; Patterson; Paul; Perez; Phelan; Price; Raney; Raymond; Romero;
 Sanford; Schaefer; Shaheen; Sheffield; Shine; Smith; Smithee; Springer;
 Stephenson; Stickland; Stucky; Swanson; Thierry; Thompson, E.; Thompson, S.;
 Tinderholt; Toth; VanDeaver; White; Wilson; Wray; Zedler; Zerwas.
     Nays — Anchia; Beckley; Bernal; Bowers; Bucy; Cole; Cortez; Davis, Y.;
 Gervin-Hawkins; Goodwin; Herrero; Hinojosa; Howard; Israel; Johnson, J.E.;
 King, T.; Martinez; Martinez Fischer; Meza; Minjarez; Morales; Neave; Nevárez;
 Ortega; Ramos; Reynolds; Rodriguez; Rose; Rosenthal; Sherman; Talarico;
 Turner, C.; Turner, J.; Vo; Wu; Zwiener.
        Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Moody(C).
        Absent, Excused — Johnson, E.
        Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Longoria; Walle.
                            STATEMENTS OF VOTE
        When Record No. 839 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                          Collier
        When Record No. 839 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                     J. González
        When Record No. 839 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                    M. González
        When Record No. 839 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                        Gutierrez
        When Record No. 839 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                    J.D. Johnson
        When Record No. 839 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                     J.E. Johnson
        When Record No. 839 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                           Lopez
Wednesday, May 1, 2019           HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                         2559

        When Record No. 839 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                              Morales
        When Record No. 839 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                                 Wu
                     SBi2 - HOUSE SPONSOR AUTHORIZED
      Pursuant to a previous motion, Representatives Allison, Anderson, Ashby,
 C. Bell, K. Bell, Biedermann, Bohac, G.iBonnen, Buckley, Burns, Button, Cain,
 Canales, Capriglione, Clardy, Cyrier, Darby, S. Davis, Dean, Flynn, Frank,
 Frullo, Goldman, Guerra, Harless, Harris, Hefner, Holland, Huberty, Hunter,
 P.iKing, Klick, Krause, Lambert, Landgraf, Lang, Larson, Leach, Leman,
 Lozano, Metcalf, Meyer, Middleton, Miller, Morrison, Murphy, Murr, Noble,
 Oliverson, Paddie, Patterson, Paul, Phelan, Raney, Raymond, Sanford, Schaefer,
 Shaheen, Sheffield, Shine, Smith, Springer, Stickland, Stucky, Swanson,
 E.iThompson, Tinderholt, Toth, White, Wray, Zedler, and Zerwas were
 designated as co-sponsors to SBi2.
                          GENERAL STATE CALENDAR
                               SENATE BILLS
                              THIRD READING
        The following bills were laid before the house and read third time:
                         SB 2100 ON THIRD READING
                (Smithee, Geren, and Tinderholt - House Sponsors)
      SB 2100, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the transfer of a retired law
 enforcement animal.
      SBi2100 was passed by (Record 840): 142 Yeas, 0 Nays, 2 Present, not
 voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Beckley; Bell, C.;
 Bell, K.; Bernal; Biedermann; Blanco; Bohac; Bonnen; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy;
 Burns; Burrows; Button; Cain; Calanni; Canales; Capriglione; Clardy; Cole;
 Coleman; Collier; Cortez; Craddick; Cyrier; Darby; Davis, S.; Davis, Y.; Dean;
 Deshotel; Dutton; Farrar; Fierro; Flynn; Frank; Frullo; Geren; Gervin-Hawkins;
 Goldman; González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen; Gutierrez;
 Harless; Harris; Hefner; Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa; Holland; Howard;
 Huberty; Hunter; Israel; Johnson, J.D.; Johnson, J.E.; Kacal; King, K.; King, P.;
 King, T.; Klick; Krause; Kuempel; Lambert; Landgraf; Lang; Larson; Leach;
 Leman; Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Martinez; Martinez Fischer; Metcalf; Meyer;
 Meza; Middleton; Miller; Minjarez; Morales; Morrison; Muñoz; Murphy; Murr;
 Neave; Nevárez; Noble; Oliverson; Ortega; Pacheco; Paddie; Parker; Patterson;
 Paul; Perez; Phelan; Price; Ramos; Raney; Raymond; Rodriguez; Romero; Rose;
 Rosenthal; Sanford; Schaefer; Shaheen; Sheffield; Sherman; Shine; Smith;
2560             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

 Smithee; Springer; Stephenson; Stickland; Stucky; Swanson; Talarico; Thierry;
 Thompson, E.; Thompson, S.; Tinderholt; Toth; Turner, C.; Turner, J.;
 VanDeaver; White; Wilson; Wray; Wu; Zedler; Zerwas; Zwiener.
       Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Moody(C).
       Absent, Excused — Johnson, E.
       Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Longoria; Walle.
       Absent — Dominguez; Reynolds; Vo.
                         GENERAL STATE CALENDAR
                              HOUSE BILLS
                             THIRD READING
       The following bills were laid before the house and read third time:
                        HB 4009 ON THIRD READING
                   (by Toth, Wu, E. Thompson, Canales, et al.)
      HB 4009, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the establishment,
 operation, and funding of victim-offender mediation programs; authorizing fees.
      HBi4009 was passed by (Record 841): 143 Yeas, 0 Nays, 2 Present, not
 voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Beckley; Bell, C.;
 Bell, K.; Bernal; Biedermann; Blanco; Bohac; Bonnen; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy;
 Burns; Burrows; Button; Cain; Calanni; Canales; Capriglione; Clardy; Cole;
 Coleman; Collier; Cortez; Craddick; Cyrier; Darby; Davis, S.; Davis, Y.; Dean;
 Deshotel; Dominguez; Dutton; Farrar; Fierro; Flynn; Frank; Frullo; Geren;
 Gervin-Hawkins; Goldman; González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra;
 Guillen; Gutierrez; Harless; Harris; Hefner; Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa;
 Holland; Howard; Huberty; Hunter; Israel; Johnson, J.D.; Johnson, J.E.; Kacal;
 King, K.; King, P.; King, T.; Klick; Krause; Kuempel; Lambert; Landgraf; Lang;
 Larson; Leach; Leman; Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Martinez; Martinez Fischer;
 Metcalf; Meyer; Meza; Middleton; Miller; Minjarez; Morales; Morrison; Muñoz;
 Murphy; Murr; Neave; Nevárez; Noble; Oliverson; Ortega; Pacheco; Paddie;
 Parker; Patterson; Paul; Perez; Phelan; Price; Ramos; Raymond; Rodriguez;
 Romero; Rose; Rosenthal; Sanford; Schaefer; Shaheen; Sheffield; Sherman;
 Shine; Smith; Smithee; Springer; Stephenson; Stickland; Stucky; Swanson;
 Talarico; Thierry; Thompson, E.; Thompson, S.; Tinderholt; Toth; Turner, C.;
 Turner, J.; VanDeaver; Vo; White; Wilson; Wray; Wu; Zedler; Zerwas; Zwiener.
       Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Moody(C).
       Absent, Excused — Johnson, E.
       Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Longoria; Walle.
       Absent — Raney; Reynolds.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019        HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                        2561

                            STATEMENT OF VOTE
      When Record No. 841 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted yes.
                                                                          Raney
                        HB 4214 ON THIRD READING
             (by Capriglione, Bohac, Blanco, Shaheen, Bernal, et al.)
      HB 4214, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to matters concerning
 governmental entities, including cybersecurity, governmental efficiencies,
 information resources, and emergency planning.
      HBi4214 was passed by (Record 842): 139 Yeas, 3 Nays, 2 Present, not
 voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Beckley; Bell, C.;
 Bell, K.; Bernal; Biedermann; Blanco; Bohac; Bonnen; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy;
 Burns; Burrows; Button; Cain; Calanni; Canales; Capriglione; Clardy; Cole;
 Coleman; Collier; Cortez; Craddick; Cyrier; Darby; Davis, S.; Dean; Deshotel;
 Farrar; Fierro; Flynn; Frank; Frullo; Geren; Gervin-Hawkins; Goldman;
 González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen; Gutierrez; Harless;
 Harris; Hefner; Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa; Howard; Huberty; Hunter; Israel;
 Johnson, J.D.; Johnson, J.E.; Kacal; King, P.; King, T.; Klick; Krause; Kuempel;
 Lambert; Landgraf; Lang; Larson; Leach; Leman; Lopez; Lozano; Lucio;
 Martinez; Martinez Fischer; Metcalf; Meyer; Meza; Middleton; Miller; Minjarez;
 Morales; Morrison; Muñoz; Murphy; Murr; Neave; Nevárez; Noble; Oliverson;
 Ortega; Pacheco; Paddie; Parker; Patterson; Paul; Perez; Phelan; Price; Ramos;
 Raney; Raymond; Reynolds; Rodriguez; Romero; Rose; Rosenthal; Sanford;
 Schaefer; Shaheen; Sheffield; Sherman; Shine; Smith; Smithee; Springer;
 Stephenson; Stucky; Swanson; Talarico; Thierry; Thompson, E.; Thompson, S.;
 Tinderholt; Toth; Turner, C.; Turner, J.; VanDeaver; Vo; White; Wilson; Wray;
 Wu; Zedler; Zerwas; Zwiener.
       Nays — Dominguez; Dutton; Holland.
       Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Moody(C).
       Absent, Excused — Johnson, E.
       Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Longoria; Walle.
       Absent — Davis, Y.; King, K.; Stickland.
                           STATEMENTS OF VOTE
      When Record No. 842 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted yes.
                                                                        Y. Davis
       When Record No. 842 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                           Frullo
2562             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

                        HB 1528 ON THIRD READING
                      (by Rose, Meyer, Ramos, and Anchia)
      HB 1528, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the reporting of certain
 information involving family violence offenses.
        (Walle now present)
      HBi1528 was passed by (Record 843): 100 Yeas, 46 Nays, 2 Present, not
 voting.
       Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Ashby; Bailes; Beckley; Bell, K.; Bernal;
 Blanco; Bohac; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy; Burns; Button; Calanni; Clardy; Cole;
 Coleman; Collier; Cortez; Craddick; Darby; Davis, S.; Davis, Y.; Deshotel;
 Dutton; Farrar; Fierro; Frullo; Gervin-Hawkins; Goldman; González, J.;
 González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen; Gutierrez; Hernandez; Herrero;
 Hinojosa; Holland; Howard; Huberty; Hunter; Israel; Johnson, J.D.; Johnson,
 J.E.; Kacal; King, K.; King, T.; Landgraf; Larson; Leach; Lopez; Lozano; Lucio;
 Martinez; Martinez Fischer; Meyer; Meza; Minjarez; Morales; Morrison; Muñoz;
 Murphy; Murr; Neave; Ortega; Pacheco; Paddie; Parker; Perez; Phelan; Price;
 Ramos; Raney; Raymond; Reynolds; Rodriguez; Romero; Rose; Rosenthal;
 Sheffield; Sherman; Stickland; Talarico; Thierry; Thompson, E.; Thompson, S.;
 Turner, C.; Turner, J.; VanDeaver; Vo; Walle; Wray; Wu; Zedler; Zerwas;
 Zwiener.
     Nays — Anderson; Bell, C.; Biedermann; Bonnen; Burrows; Cain; Canales;
 Capriglione; Cyrier; Dean; Dominguez; Flynn; Frank; Geren; Harless; Harris;
 Hefner; King, P.; Klick; Krause; Kuempel; Lambert; Lang; Leman; Metcalf;
 Middleton; Miller; Nevárez; Noble; Oliverson; Patterson; Paul; Sanford;
 Schaefer; Shaheen; Shine; Smith; Smithee; Springer; Stephenson; Stucky;
 Swanson; Tinderholt; Toth; White; Wilson.
        Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Moody(C).
        Absent, Excused — Johnson, E.
        Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Longoria.
                              STATEMENTS OF VOTE
        When Record No. 843 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                     Capriglione
        When Record No. 843 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                           Dean
        When Record No. 843 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                       Kuempel
Wednesday, May 1, 2019        HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                          2563

       When Record No. 843 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                            Leach
                       HB 2817 ON THIRD READING
                  (by Lucio, Raney, Oliverson, and Raymond)
     HB 2817, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the contractual relationship
 between a pharmacist or pharmacy and a health benefit plan issuer or pharmacy
 benefit manager.
      HBi2817 was passed by (Record 844): 139 Yeas, 3 Nays, 3 Present, not
 voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Beckley; Bell, C.;
 Bell, K.; Bernal; Biedermann; Blanco; Bohac; Bonnen; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy;
 Burns; Burrows; Button; Calanni; Canales; Capriglione; Clardy; Cole; Coleman;
 Collier; Cortez; Craddick; Cyrier; Darby; Davis, S.; Dean; Dominguez; Dutton;
 Farrar; Fierro; Flynn; Frank; Frullo; Gervin-Hawkins; Goldman; González, J.;
 González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen; Gutierrez; Harless; Harris; Hefner;
 Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa; Holland; Howard; Huberty; Hunter; Israel;
 Johnson, J.D.; Johnson, J.E.; Kacal; King, K.; King, P.; King, T.; Krause;
 Kuempel; Lambert; Landgraf; Lang; Larson; Leach; Leman; Lopez; Lozano;
 Lucio; Martinez; Martinez Fischer; Metcalf; Meyer; Meza; Middleton; Miller;
 Minjarez; Morales; Morrison; Muñoz; Murphy; Murr; Neave; Nevárez; Noble;
 Oliverson; Ortega; Pacheco; Paddie; Parker; Patterson; Paul; Perez; Phelan; Price;
 Ramos; Raney; Raymond; Rodriguez; Romero; Rose; Rosenthal; Sanford;
 Schaefer; Shaheen; Sheffield; Sherman; Shine; Smith; Smithee; Springer;
 Stephenson; Stickland; Stucky; Swanson; Talarico; Thierry; Thompson, E.;
 Thompson, S.; Toth; Turner, C.; Turner, J.; VanDeaver; Vo; Walle; White;
 Wilson; Wray; Wu; Zedler; Zerwas; Zwiener.
       Nays — Cain; Klick; Tinderholt.
       Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Geren; Moody(C).
       Absent, Excused — Johnson, E.
       Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Longoria.
       Absent — Davis, Y.; Deshotel; Reynolds.
                           STATEMENTS OF VOTE
      When Record No. 844 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted yes.
                                                                          Y. Davis
      When Record No. 844 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted yes.
                                                                          Deshotel
2564            86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

                        HB 2811 ON THIRD READING
          (by Price, Frank, Minjarez, S. Thompson, VanDeaver, et al.)
      HB 2811, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the prescribing of
 controlled substances and dangerous drugs for acute pain.
      HBi2811 was passed by (Record 845): 139 Yeas, 5 Nays, 2 Present, not
 voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Beckley; Bell, C.;
 Bell, K.; Bernal; Biedermann; Blanco; Bohac; Bonnen; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy;
 Burns; Burrows; Button; Calanni; Canales; Capriglione; Clardy; Cole; Coleman;
 Collier; Cortez; Craddick; Cyrier; Darby; Davis, S.; Dean; Deshotel; Dominguez;
 Dutton; Farrar; Fierro; Flynn; Frank; Frullo; Geren; Gervin-Hawkins; Goldman;
 González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen; Gutierrez; Harless;
 Harris; Hefner; Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa; Holland; Howard; Huberty;
 Hunter; Israel; Johnson, J.D.; Johnson, J.E.; Kacal; King, K.; King, P.; King, T.;
 Klick; Krause; Kuempel; Lambert; Landgraf; Lang; Larson; Leach; Leman;
 Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Martinez; Martinez Fischer; Metcalf; Meyer; Meza;
 Middleton; Miller; Minjarez; Morales; Morrison; Muñoz; Murphy; Murr; Neave;
 Nevárez; Noble; Oliverson; Ortega; Pacheco; Paddie; Parker; Patterson; Paul;
 Perez; Phelan; Price; Ramos; Raney; Raymond; Rodriguez; Romero; Rose;
 Rosenthal; Sanford; Shaheen; Sherman; Shine; Smith; Smithee; Springer;
 Stephenson; Stickland; Stucky; Talarico; Thierry; Thompson, E.; Thompson, S.;
 Toth; Turner, C.; Turner, J.; VanDeaver; Vo; Walle; White; Wilson; Wray; Wu;
 Zedler; Zerwas; Zwiener.
       Nays — Cain; Schaefer; Sheffield; Swanson; Tinderholt.
       Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Moody(C).
       Absent, Excused — Johnson, E.
       Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Longoria.
       Absent — Davis, Y.; Reynolds.
                            STATEMENT OF VOTE
      When Record No. 845 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted yes.
                                                                          Y. Davis
                        HB 97 ON THIRD READING
                 (by Rodriguez, Murphy, Guillen, and Zwiener)
      HB 97, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the eligibility of land for
 appraisal for ad valorem tax purposes as qualified open-space land.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019        HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                          2565

 Amendment No. 1
      Representative Springer offered the following amendment to HBi97:
       Amend HBi97 (second reading engrossment) by striking SECTION 4 of the
 bill (page 5, lines 1-6) and substituting the following appropriately numbered
 SECTION:
       SECTIONi____.iiThis section applies only to land that first qualified for
 appraisal under Subchapter D, Chapter 23, Tax Code, on the basis of its use as an
 ecological laboratory in the 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, or 2020 tax
 year. The change in law made by this Act to Section 23.51(1), Tax Code, relating
 to the qualification of land as an ecological laboratory for appraisal under
 Subchapter D, Chapter 23, Tax Code, applies to land to which this section applies
 beginning with the tax year that begins January 1, 2027. For the 2021, 2022,
 2023, 2024, 2025, and 2026 tax years, the qualification of land to which this
 section applies for appraisal under Subchapter D, Chapter 23, Tax Code, on the
 basis of its use as an ecological laboratory is governed by the law as it existed
 immediately before the effective date of this Act, and the former law is continued
 in effect for that purpose.
      Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
      HB 97, as amended, was passed by (Record 846): 140 Yeas, 2 Nays, 2
 Present, not voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Bell, C.; Bell, K.;
 Bernal; Biedermann; Blanco; Bohac; Bonnen; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy; Burns;
 Burrows; Button; Cain; Calanni; Capriglione; Clardy; Cole; Coleman; Collier;
 Cortez; Craddick; Cyrier; Darby; Davis, S.; Dean; Deshotel; Dominguez; Dutton;
 Farrar; Fierro; Flynn; Frank; Frullo; Geren; Gervin-Hawkins; Goldman;
 González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Gutierrez; Harless; Harris; Hefner;
 Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa; Holland; Howard; Huberty; Hunter; Israel;
 Johnson, J.D.; Johnson, J.E.; Kacal; King, K.; King, P.; King, T.; Klick; Krause;
 Kuempel; Lambert; Landgraf; Lang; Larson; Leach; Leman; Lopez; Lozano;
 Lucio; Martinez; Martinez Fischer; Metcalf; Meyer; Meza; Middleton; Miller;
 Minjarez; Morales; Morrison; Muñoz; Murphy; Murr; Neave; Nevárez; Noble;
 Oliverson; Ortega; Pacheco; Paddie; Parker; Patterson; Paul; Perez; Phelan; Price;
 Ramos; Raney; Raymond; Rodriguez; Romero; Rose; Rosenthal; Sanford;
 Schaefer; Shaheen; Sheffield; Sherman; Shine; Smith; Smithee; Springer;
 Stephenson; Stucky; Swanson; Talarico; Thierry; Thompson, E.; Thompson, S.;
 Tinderholt; Toth; Turner, C.; Turner, J.; VanDeaver; Vo; Walle; White; Wilson;
 Wray; Wu; Zedler; Zerwas; Zwiener.
      Nays — Canales; Stickland.
      Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Moody(C).
      Absent, Excused — Johnson, E.
      Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Longoria.
      Absent — Beckley; Davis, Y.; Guillen; Reynolds.
2566             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

                             STATEMENT OF VOTE
      When Record No. 846 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted yes.
                                                                          Y. Davis
                         HB 669 ON THIRD READING
               (by K. King, Guillen, Springer, Ashby, T. King, et al.)
      HB 669, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the use of the universal
 service fund for the provision of broadband service in underserved rural areas.
      HBi669 was passed by (Record 847): 114 Yeas, 31 Nays, 2 Present, not
 voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Bell, C.; Bell, K.;
 Bernal; Blanco; Bohac; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy; Burns; Burrows; Button;
 Calanni; Canales; Capriglione; Clardy; Cole; Coleman; Collier; Cortez; Craddick;
 Darby; Davis, S.; Davis, Y.; Dean; Deshotel; Dominguez; Dutton; Farrar; Fierro;
 Flynn; Frank; Frullo; Gervin-Hawkins; González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin;
 Guerra; Guillen; Gutierrez; Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa; Howard; Huberty;
 Hunter; Israel; Johnson, J.D.; Johnson, J.E.; Kacal; King, K.; King, P.; King, T.;
 Kuempel; Lambert; Landgraf; Larson; Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Martinez; Martinez
 Fischer; Meyer; Meza; Miller; Minjarez; Morales; Morrison; Muñoz; Murphy;
 Murr; Neave; Nevárez; Noble; Ortega; Pacheco; Paddie; Paul; Perez; Phelan;
 Price; Ramos; Raney; Raymond; Reynolds; Rodriguez; Romero; Rose;
 Rosenthal; Sheffield; Sherman; Smith; Smithee; Springer; Stephenson; Stucky;
 Talarico; Thierry; Thompson, S.; Turner, C.; Turner, J.; VanDeaver; Vo; Walle;
 White; Wray; Wu; Zerwas; Zwiener.
      Nays — Biedermann; Bonnen; Cain; Cyrier; Geren; Goldman; Harless;
 Harris; Hefner; Holland; Klick; Krause; Lang; Leach; Leman; Metcalf;
 Middleton; Oliverson; Parker; Patterson; Sanford; Schaefer; Shaheen; Shine;
 Stickland; Swanson; Thompson, E.; Tinderholt; Toth; Wilson; Zedler.
        Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Moody(C).
        Absent, Excused — Johnson, E.
        Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Longoria.
        Absent — Beckley.
                            STATEMENTS OF VOTE
        When Record No. 847 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                            Button
        When Record No. 847 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                            Cyrier
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                          2567

        When Record No. 847 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                             Leman
        When Record No. 847 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                      E. Thompson
                         HB 103 ON THIRD READING
               (by Martinez, Guillen, Canales, Muñoz, and Anchia)
      HB 103, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the establishment of a public
 law school in the Rio Grande Valley.
      HBi103 was passed by (Record 848): 107 Yeas, 36 Nays, 2 Present, not
 voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Beckley; Bell,
 K.; Bernal; Blanco; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy; Burns; Burrows; Button; Calanni;
 Canales; Capriglione; Clardy; Cole; Coleman; Collier; Cortez; Darby; Davis, S.;
 Deshotel; Dominguez; Dutton; Farrar; Fierro; Flynn; Frank; Frullo; Geren;
 Gervin-Hawkins; González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen;
 Gutierrez; Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa; Howard; Huberty; Hunter; Israel;
 Johnson, J.D.; Johnson, J.E.; Kacal; King, K.; King, T.; Kuempel; Lambert;
 Larson; Leach; Leman; Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Martinez; Martinez Fischer;
 Meyer; Meza; Miller; Minjarez; Morales; Morrison; Muñoz; Murphy; Neave;
 Nevárez; Ortega; Pacheco; Parker; Perez; Phelan; Price; Ramos; Raymond;
 Rodriguez; Romero; Rose; Rosenthal; Sanford; Shaheen; Sheffield; Sherman;
 Shine; Stephenson; Stucky; Talarico; Thompson, E.; Thompson, S.; Toth; Turner,
 C.; Turner, J.; VanDeaver; Vo; Walle; White; Wray; Wu; Zerwas; Zwiener.
     Nays — Bell, C.; Biedermann; Bohac; Bonnen; Cain; Craddick; Cyrier;
 Dean; Goldman; Harless; Harris; Hefner; Holland; King, P.; Klick; Krause;
 Landgraf; Lang; Metcalf; Middleton; Murr; Noble; Oliverson; Paddie; Patterson;
 Paul; Raney; Schaefer; Smith; Smithee; Springer; Stickland; Swanson;
 Tinderholt; Wilson; Zedler.
        Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Moody(C).
        Absent, Excused — Johnson, E.
        Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Longoria.
        Absent — Davis, Y.; Reynolds; Thierry.
                             STATEMENT OF VOTE
      When Record No. 848 was taken, my vote failed to register. I would have
 voted yes.
                                                                           Y. Davis
2568             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

                         HB 2384 ON THIRD READING
                      (by Leach, Hunter, Flynn, and Clardy)
      HB 2384, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to judicial compensation and
 assignment and the contributions to, benefits from, membership in, and
 administration of the Judicial Retirement System of Texas Plan One and Plan
 Two, including related changes to the compensation and retirement benefits of
 certain prosecutors and other members of the elected class of the Employees
 Retirement System of Texas.
 Amendment No. 1
       Representative Y. Davis offered the following amendment to HBi2384:
      Amend HBi2384 on third reading as follows:
      (1)iiIn Section 18, delete Section 659.012(b), Government Code, and insert
 the following:
      (b)iiA judge or justice for whom the amount of a state base salary is
 prescribed by Subsection (a) is entitled to an annual salary from the state in the
 amount equal to 110 percent of the state base salary paid in accordance with
 Subsection (a) for the judge ’s or justice ’s position.
                       AMENDMENT NO. 1 - REMARKS
 REPRESENTATIVE Y. DAVIS: This amendment merely attempts to create a
 fairness across the board with all of our judges. I think that this bill has set up a
 tiered system for judicial pay that does not respect all of those who have been
 duly elected by the citizens of this state. They should be treated fairly, and there ’s
 no reason for us to have a system that treats judges differently. And so this
 amendment attempts to deal with what I think is a process that we are putting in
 place ourselves for no apparent reason. There ’s no reason for us to take and use
 this environment to manipulate a process that is controlled by the citizens of
 Texas. They say that this bill is a retention bill and that we ’re trying to keep or
 retain some judges and/or attract other judges, the talented or the most talented. I
 would submit to you that those judges that have been vetted by the citizens
 represent some of the strongest talented individuals in the State of Texas. During
 the testimony there was no mention or notion that in fact the judges that have
 been duly elected were doing less work or had less credentials. The only thing
 they lacked was experience, and the only way you get experience is that you run
 for office and get elected. And so in this bill, in our wisdom we ’re now saying
 that some judges should be treated differently than other judges, and I think that ’s
 fundamentally flawed.
       And members, I would just tell you, for those of you who just got elected to
 the legislature and for those of you who might be coming to get elected or run for
 office, it would be disappointing to know that you ’re going to be treated
 differently than those of us who have been here a while. By virtue of the fact that
 you run for the same office, you get elected the same way by the citizens in your
 district, and the pay is what it is––the pay is what it is––you would be
 disappointed to know that we would pass a bill that would treat you differently.
 And that ’s what this bill does. It ’s actually taking judges who have been duly
Wednesday, May 1, 2019          HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                            2569

 elected for those different positions, and we are now putting a tiered system in
 place saying that they deserve or others deserve more than you to do the same
 job. So I would just tell you that as a member of the legislature, we ought not be
 spending our time trying to figure out how to separate us but how to make the
 entire environment stronger. Picking and choosing winners by virtue of when you
 got elected to the position is just not fair. So I wanted to offer this amendment to
 discuss, do we really think it ’s the right of the legislature to do this?
 REPRESENTATIVE SMITHEE: Ms. Davis, if you could explain. The way I
 understand the bill, and I think you ’ve laid this out, is the fact that it basically
 stair-steps up to a point judicial salaries based on longevity in office. Is that your
 understanding?
 Y. DAVIS: That is my understanding, and that was the testimony in the
 committee.
 SMITHEE: Okay, and then my understanding of your amendment is that you
 would apply, basically, a universal pay raise to the entire judiciary regardless of
 seniority.
 Y. DAVIS: Chairman Smithee, the challenge for me is that in the testimony, we
 heard that we were going to pay certain judges differently by virtue of them being
 there. It had nothing to do with their rulings, had nothing to do with their
 caseloads, had nothing to do with anything other than they had been a judge
 longer than some of the others. And as you know, seniority in this house––we
 don t’ pay us that have been here longer more than we pay those who just came in.
 And so my challenge is for us to be able to justify how we create a tier system
 that will treat judges differently than how we should treat everyone else.
 SMITHEE: My question, though––I understand your position on the amendment.
 My question is, we ’re going to take the same pool of money and spread it out to
 all judges equally regardless of longevity?
 Y. DAVIS: Yes. Based on testimony, they say we don t’ pay our judges enough.
 So I think judges should be paid––if we want to pay judges more, I think we
 should treat them all the same. My amendment basically says that whatever pool
 of money we ’re going to have to do increases, we will treat judges the same way
 across the board. And to attempt to do that, my amendment simply says let ’s give
 everybody the same amount, whatever that amount is, because they ’re doing the
 same job and they ’ve been elected the same way. Just as we wouldn t’ pay
 members who have been in the legislature differently than those who have just
 come into the legislature, it makes no sense to me that we would then do our
 judges that way. We shouldn t’ be picking and choosing who gets more money.
 We should be treating our judges across the board the same. And I think if they
 want more money, let ’s pay them all more money.
 SMITHEE: I think we all understand your reasons for offering the amendment,
 but I have two questions. Number one is, will this increase the fiscal cost of the
 bill?
2570            86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

 Y. DAVIS: It would appear that it would not because I ’m only trying to treat them
 the way this bill is treating it and whatever the amount of money that is.
 SMITHEE: So does it cost more or less?
 Y. DAVIS: I ’m not sure if it costs more or less. I would submit that I would
 certainly be glad to figure out a way to do a balance across the board. I don t’
 know what the fiscal note was on this bill. I just know that from a policy
 standpoint it makes no sense for us to justify or attempt to justify why you would
 pay one differently than the other.
 SMITHEE: Okay, and the second question is, will your amendment, if it goes on,
 affect legislators ’pension or retirement?
 Y. DAVIS: I ’m happy to take an amendment that says that legislators will not
 receive this increase. I ’m not trying to do an increase for legislators. I know
 members are a little uncomfortable with that. I ’m more concerned that we have a
 commitment to fairness across the board to all of our judges, and how we do that
 is what is more important than whether or not this improves someone else ’s
 personal interests. I ’m happy to discuss––let ’s do this so members are not going
 to get a raise. That ’s not my intent. My intent is that how can we be comfortable
 individually taking a judicial slot and pay them differently than another judicial
 slot? They ’re doing the same work. Now, why would we treat them differently?
 And that is the policy question. So the cost of it, we as a state––we ’ve got to
 decide, how do we want to govern? Do we want to treat people fairly? Or do we
 want to govern where some are going to be treated better by virtue of the fact that
 they got there sooner? That ’s the question, and this amendment is trying to find
 some balance in recognizing that members here are not going to be treated
 differently because they came sooner or later. So how can we be in good faith
 doing that to our judges? And while I support giving judges an increase, I support
 we treat them fairly and do it across the board to all of our judges.
       And with that, members, I just think that as members of a legislative
 body––and I know we ’re all zoned out so we don t’ have to be thinking about the
 votes we make and the votes that we ’re casting so that when we get home it
 becomes kind of silent in our mind––but there ’s some things that we should not
 be doing. I ’m just suggesting that we need to be clearer about the policy
 discussion. And while I recognize I don t’ have the votes––I understand this is
 something that everybody has pretty much said we ’re going to do it this way––I
 don t’ want to be silent on how we r’e institutionalizing discrimination based on
 how we come in and when we come in. That ’s what we ’re doing here. We ’re
 saying that because you didn t’ come in eight years ago or 12iyears ago or 14ior
 16iyears ago, you get less money. And we don t’ do that to members of this
 legislature. In fact, we d’ be offended if somebody did that to us, and I don t’ know
 how you can leave here justifying that approach to how we give an increase to
 our judges. I would just tell you that if you ’re worried about you getting an
 increase from this, we can take that amendment so that the legislature will not
 receive an increase. But if you leave here voting for this bill and talking about
 judicial pay increase and you treat judges differently by virtue of their tenure on
 the bench, you ’re now saying to them that if you didn t’ run 20iyears ago or
Wednesday, May 1, 2019          HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                            2571

 couldn t’ get elected 12iyears ago, shame on you––you don t’ deserve what the
 others deserve. You know, I ’m just saying that ’s the decision here, and I know my
 chairman has been gracious and said we ’re not trying to do that. But in fact, that ’s
 exactly what we ’re doing.
      Okay, I was going to pull it down because I lost it in the committee voting
 on it. Because I know all of your judges have been talking about voting. They
 want this pay raise. They haven t’ had a pay raise in 12iyears or 14iyears or
 whatever. But I think it s’ important, so I would move to support this amendment.
 REPRESENTATIVE LEACH: Members, we ’re going to vote up or down on this
 amendment. I ’m not going to move to table because I actually agree with
 Representative Davis that the body deserves to vote on this policy discussion. But
 let ’s be very clear about what this bill does and doesn t’ do. I think Representative
 Davis in her words just said that this bill was institutionalized discrimination, and
 in fact, it does the exact opposite. This bill is supported by democrats new and
 old––or I should say new and those long-serving judges all across the state from
 districts rural and urban. Democrats and republicans, African Americans,
 Hispanics, females, males, white judges––we have received overwhelming
 support with respect to this bill. To be clear, over the past 18 years––18 years,
 members––our Texas judges have only received two pay raises. With respect to
 judicial pay, our judges on our high courts rank 29th in the nation. Our appellate
 judges rank 25th in the nation. Our district judges rank 31st in the nation.
 Essentially, salaries for our judges are 20ito 35ipercent lower than the salaries for
 judges in other states. Members, more than 60ipercent of our judges have been
 licensed attorneys for more than 25iyears, yet there ’s no question that they make
 significantly less than the average salary of an experienced lawyer. According to
 the Texas Workforce Commission, this amount is approximately $185,000.
 Adjusting for inflation, Texas judges are paid less now than they were in 1991,
 28iyears ago. This bill, as I mentioned last night, at the core establishes the base
 pay for our judges at $140,000. This is the amount we ’ve been appropriating
 toward judicial compensation since 2013. And then the compensation would
 increase by 10ipercent every four years that they serve, up to 12iyears, on a tiered
 pay scale.
        And members, if you ’re interested in what your judges in your districts are
 going to make under this bill, I ’ve got all the information right here––your new
 judges and judges who ’ve been around four, eight, 12, 16, in some cases
 30iyears. And the response, the feedback that we ’ve gotten from judges all across
 the state is yes, pass this bill. Because we don t’ want our judges across this state
 to have to rely on the legislature to come back here every session and debate on
 whether all judges should receive a pay raise. If and when this bill passes, under
 the terms of this bill, automatically the system will allow for and will encourage
 our judges to stay on the bench instead of leaving for private practice. And so if
 they faithfully execute their job and get reelected, at four years they ’re going to
 get a 10ipercent pay raise. At eight years they ’re going to get a 20ipercent pay
 raise from the base pay. At 12iyears, a 30ipercent pay raise. That is incredible.
 They don t’ have to rely on the legislature to come back here.
2572            86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

       And let me make very clear what Representative Davis i’amendment does
 do. Representative Davis i’amendment, it ’s my understanding, raises the base pay
 for all judges by 10ipercent. And in so doing, by voting for Representative
 Davis i’amendment, you are voting to increase your pension. You are voting
 today, if you vote yes on Representative Davis i’amendment, to vote to increase
 your pension. I, as the author of this bill, am not willing to do that. And so let me
 make very clear that if Representative Davis i’amendment goes on––and we ’re
 going to vote on it––if it goes on, I ’m going to do everything I can to kill my own
 bill because I do not believe that legislators this session should be even having
 the discussion about whether we should give ourselves any sort of pay raise.
 That ’s what her amendment does, and I ’m not willing to go that route. I would
 encourage you to vote no on her amendment, and I ’m happy to take questions.
 REPRESENTATIVE KRAUSE: As we heard this bill in committee, I think this
 goes to the fact that when you ’re running for judge you know exactly what the
 salary s’ going to be. You know exactly what the commitments are going to be. So
 this amendment kind of cuts against that, right? I mean, we ’re not surprising
 anybody. We ’re not taking anything away from those who have just run in the last
 couple of years. They knew exactly what they were signing up for, is that correct?
 LEACH: That ’s right, Representative Krause. Every single judge newly elected
 this past November knew that when they ran. If they won office, they were
 getting $140,000ibase pay. And I would say that under this bill, those judges can
 be assured that they are getting a pay raise in four years. So if they get reelected,
 they can be assured under this bill that they ’re getting a 10ipercent pay raise.
 They don t’ have to wait on or worry about whether the legislature is going to
 come vote to approve a pay raise for all judges. Under this bill, if they faithfully
 execute their office and get reelected in four years, they will get a 10ipercent pay
 raise in four years.
 KRAUSE: That ’s right. And Chief Justice Hecht came and testified in front of
 our committee talking about the need to increase judicial pay because he said
 oftentimes after a number of years we lose these great, qualified judges to the
 private sector or other places. I think you said in your layout it only makes sense
 that we increase the pay for those who have been here eight, 12, 16iyears because
 those are the ones we ’re actually seeking to retain and keep on our benches. Is
 that right?
 LEACH: I couldn t’ have said it better, Representative Krause. That ’s absolutely
 correct.
 KRAUSE: Okay. Well, I appreciate your work on this bill. I think it s’ past time
 that we actually have some higher salaries for our judges. You ’ve come up with a
 great framework to do it that doesn t’ enrich us, as you just made clear. So I
 appreciate your support, and I l’l be supporting you saying no to the amendment.
 REPRESENTATIVE ROMERO: So just to help me understand, there ’s going to
 be a pay raise for all judges to $140,000, correct?
Wednesday, May 1, 2019           HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                             2573

 LEACH: That ’s actually sort of correct. Let me explain. So right now we already
 pay, based on the Appropriations bills from recent sessions, we ’ve been paying
 since 2013iall of our judges $140,000ia year. That ’s actually not in statute. That ’s
 been in the Appropriations bills. So what this bill ’s going to do is put that
 $140,000ithat we ’ve been paying judges in statute. So we are not increasing the
 base pay. We ’re setting the base pay in statute at $140,000iand then basing the
 tier system––the four, eight, 12-year tier system––on that base pay number.
 ROMERO: And within the bill there are different increments by which a judge
 could receive a raise if a judge has already been serving those number of years.
 So then your bill would in essence give those judges who have been there a
 longer period of time a greater increase in their pay if this bill takes effect. Is that
 correct?
 LEACH: There are many judges across the state that are going to get very
 handsome––in some cases 30ipercent––pay raises if and when this bill passes if
 they ’ve been serving for 12iyears.
 ROMERO: Based upon how long they ’ve been here. So those judges that have
 been serving longer are going to receive a greater increase immediately?
 LEACH: Based on the bill, yes. It ’s based, Representative, on your years of
 service, on four, eight, and 12iyears. So yes, if they have been serving longer,
 they will get a bigger pay raise, if you will.
 ROMERO: Right. So yesterday when you laid it out, you said that someone that
 had been serving 12iyears could see as much as a 30ipercent increase. So
 therefore, those judges that have served at least 12iyears could see a 30ipercent
 increase above the base pay of $140,000?
 LEACH: That ’s correct. And again, if you ’r e interested in what your
 judges-––and I would add, members, your district attorneys because district
 attorneys are included in this bill as well––if you ’re interested in how their
 compensation will be impacted, I have that information here.
 REPRESENTATIVE CANALES: Thank you, Representative Leach, for all your
 hard work on this. Let me start with that. I know you ’ve worked all session, and I
 know that what you ’re doing is something that needs to get done. I just want to
 ask you a little bit about Representative Davis i’amendment. I ’m just kind of
 mulling it over in my head. Would you think that because someone ’s in the
 legislature longer that we should get paid more?
 LEACH: If someone is in the legislature longer?
 CANALES: If you and I, for instance––I l’l give you an example. You ’re here
 three sessions, and I ’m here 12. Should I be getting paid more than you because
 I ’m here longer? Because that ’s what we ’re doing.
 LEACH: Well, not really, because members don t’ come into this legislature to
 make a living. We get paid $7,200ia year before taxes. But I will tell you that, for
 instance, in private practice––as you know as a lawyer, Representative
 Canales––that a 20-year lawyer is making much more than a one-year lawyer.
2574             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

 CANALES: But you ’re comparing apples to oranges. This is a public elected
 official, and these are elected positions. Compare it to another one. Should the
 governor get paid more because he ’s there longer? Should any elected officials be
 getting raises because they ’re there longer? I appreciate what Representative
 Davis is doing, and I think your bill has a great intent. I believe we need to give
 judges a raise, but I think we ’re setting a bad precedent. I don t’ think it ’s about
 raising our pensions. I think that by setting this precedent and not accepting the
 amendment or not voting for the amendment, we ’re basically saying elected
 officials have to get paid more the longer they ’re there. Here ’s a question:iWhat is
 the difference in the workload for a judge that just got elected to a judge that ’s
 been there 10iyears? There ’s no difference in workload. They ’re doing the same
 job.
 Y. DAVIS: Again, let me just say this––I don t’ disagree with Chairman Leach in
 his quest to give judges an increase. I don t’ think it ’s anything to be proud of that
 our judges are number 29th and 25th in terms of salary payment that we pay
 them. What I think is unconscionable, though, is that we would manipulate a
 process that gives certain judges more money than other judges for the same job.
 And I think he was a bit offended that I used the word "discrimination." I don t’
 know any other way to describe when you take two people doing the same thing,
 doing the same job, and you treat them differently. I don t’ know any way to call
 that. And if there ’s another way to say that you treat people differently that are
 doing the same thing and one doesn t’ lend itself to discriminating against the
 other, I ’m just not aware of the word that I would use.
 CANALES: Representative, is there a difference between what a judge that just
 got elected is doing and a judge that ’s been there for 12iyears is doing as far as
 workload?
 Y. DAVIS: To my knowledge there is no difference from that person that was
 elected recently and that person that ’s in the same district court or probate court.
 They ’re doing the same job.
 CANALES: And they ’re state employees, is that correct?
 Y. DAVIS: That s’ correct.
 CANALES: So under Mr. Leach ’s theory, every state employee then should get
 these raises across the board. Every state employee should get raises across the
 board for tenure. Why are we treating judges––I believe they need a raise––but
 why are we creating this special class of elected official and/or state employee
 that gets more money the longer they r’e there? Do you know of any other office
 or state employee that gets raises the way that we ’re doing based on tenure?
 Y. DAVIS: And I think that ’s my problem with this approach. It ’s that the
 policy––the message we ’re sending in this policy is that it ’s okay to treat people
 differently.
 CANALES: But is there another elected official––I ’m seeing Mr.iLeach
 disagreeing––but is there another elected official that we give raises to for being
 there longer?
Wednesday, May 1, 2019          HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                           2575

 Y. DAVIS: I ’m not aware of it. I know here in this body we ’re not paying
 Ms.iThompson more than we ’re paying any other member, and she ’s certainly
 been here. Or Speaker Craddick ’s not making more.
 CANALES: Well, Speaker Craddick would be a millionaire if that was––well, he
 is a millionaire.
 Y. DAVIS: The question for me is a policy issue. Are we sure we want to set a
 standard where we start treating people differently for the same elected positions?
 CANALES: I agree with you. We need to raise their pay, but I think your
 amendment is great. I think the other way around we set a slippery slope. We ’re
 setting a bad precedent all the way across the board. We need to raise our
 judges i’pay, but thank you for your amendment.
 Y. DAVIS: Again, members, I ’m just trying to talk about this from a policy
 standpoint. At some point the State of Texas has to review how we make
 decisions. As members of this body, it is our responsibility to look after the state
 and the state ’s welfare. And we as a body would not want to be charged with
 treating our judges differently because they came later.
 REPRESENTATIVE RAMOS: I think this is a great amendment. I am a
 practicing attorney. I see the judges, whether elected yesterday or 20iyears ago,
 doing exactly what you ’re saying, the same job. And if judges cannot live on the
 current salary––they can ’t do it now at $110,000ior at $125,000ior
 $140,000––they all have the same living expenses across the board, so we should
 be equally uniform in their increases. I am aware that these conversations started
 happening––well, let me ask you this. Have there been conversations such as this
 in your past history where we ’ve discussed increasing the judges i’pay that ’s not
 tied to retirement in the past?
 Y. DAVIS: No. And in fact, what we were trying to say is that this bill is different
 from any other bill because we ’re saying that people should be getting more for
 doing the same job. It ’s a fundamental policy discussion about whether or not we
 want to do that. Again, I ’m not trying to increase our retirement. So take that
 away. We have someone drafting an amendment, if that were the case, to remove
 the thought that we would be increasing our own pension plan. I m  ’ not trying to
 do that. This is a fundamental discussion on how we ’re going to make decisions
 in the state legislature with regard to how we treat our citizens.
 RAMOS: So to be clear, you want an across-the-board increase for all of our
 judges, and you do not want it connected at all with the the pensions here for the
 legislators. Is that correct?
 Y. DAVIS: That ’s exactly right. And let me say this––members, the chairman will
 tell you that I indicated early on that I support the judicial pay raise. So I don t’
 want anybody to leave here saying I ’m anti-judicial pay raise. I do support that.
 But I do think it ’s important that we don t’ do it in a manner that has the effect of
 treating people differently, number one. Number two, there is no assurance that
 anybody is going to get reelected. So why are we putting in these false steps
 because you ’ve been there? Because you might not get reelected the next term.
2576             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

 That ’s why it ’s so important that we take time to look at a process that will be fair
 across the board. And I ’ve had members come and say, you ’re not going to make
 us take this vote, are you? And that s’ fundamentally the problem with this
 environment. We want to ignore the policy discussions for what feels comfortable
 for us.
 RAMOS: Well, Representative Davis, I want to thank you for this amendment. I
 think it ’s very important. As I do go into court, as I deal with individuals in our
 communities and families in our communities, I think it ’s wonderful that we have
 new judges––for example, what happened in Houston with the new election of
 the judges––to reflect their community to understand some of the circumstances
 that are happening in the community. I think we should value all judges and
 especially ones that are new to our communities and to continue to grow that
 expertise and that experience. And the only way we can do that is to be uniform
 and balanced across the board. So I thank you very much, and I think this is a
 great amendment.
 Y. DAVIS: Members, I would ask that you at least take a minute to think about
 the policy here. Think about the policy as it relates to where we ’re going and how
 we ’re making decisions. And again, I ’ve never been opposed to the pay raise for
 the judges. I think that we ought to do better, but I think that as an elected body
 that ’s getting elected the same way in every district, we need to be clear that this
 is an issue that we need to be addressing. And so taking a vote or not taking a
 vote, you ought to all individually be thinking about how this feels to you from a
 policy standpoint. And I don t’ know that we have an amendment drafted to make
 sure that members don t’ get the pay raise and the pension. Again, that ’s not what
 I was trying to do. But I think it ’s important that we talk about how we make
 decisions when we do these kinds of things. I think we ’ve gotten so comfortable
 just doing stuff that I wanted to at least raise the issue––are you comfortable
 making decisions that create these tiers and artificially give some more than the
 others for the same job? So with that, I ’m going to withdraw this amendment. I ’m
 going to withdraw this amendment because I don t’ want members to have to go
 back and explain why they voted for a pay raise for some and not for others. As I
 talked to my judges in Dallas County, some of the old ones and the new ones,
 while they asked for the pay raise, they couldn t’ justify getting treated better than
 others. And I think that ’s the issue here.
          BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS SIGNED BY THE SPEAKER
      Notice was given at this time that the speaker had signed bills and
 resolutions in the presence of the house (see the addendum to the daily journal,
 Signed by the Speaker, Senate List No. 15).
                        HB 2384 - (consideration continued)
       Amendment No. 1 was withdrawn.
      HB 2384 was passed by (Record 849): 143 Yeas, 2 Nays, 2 Present, not
 voting.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019          HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                       2577

      Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Beckley; Bell, C.;
 Bell, K.; Bernal; Biedermann; Blanco; Bohac; Bonnen; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy;
 Burns; Burrows; Button; Cain; Calanni; Canales; Capriglione; Clardy; Cole;
 Coleman; Collier; Cortez; Craddick; Cyrier; Darby; Davis, S.; Davis, Y.; Dean;
 Deshotel; Dominguez; Dutton; Farrar; Flynn; Frank; Frullo; Geren;
 Gervin-Hawkins; Goldman; González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra;
 Guillen; Gutierrez; Harless; Harris; Hefner; Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa;
 Holland; Howard; Huberty; Hunter; Israel; Johnson, J.D.; Kacal; King, K.; King,
 P.; King, T.; Klick; Krause; Kuempel; Lambert; Landgraf; Lang; Larson; Leach;
 Leman; Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Martinez; Martinez Fischer; Metcalf; Meyer;
 Meza; Middleton; Miller; Minjarez; Moody(C); Morales; Morrison; Muñoz;
 Murphy; Murr; Neave; Nevárez; Noble; Oliverson; Ortega; Paddie; Parker;
 Patterson; Paul; Perez; Phelan; Price; Raney; Raymond; Reynolds; Rodriguez;
 Romero; Rose; Rosenthal; Sanford; Schaefer; Shaheen; Sheffield; Sherman;
 Shine; Smith; Smithee; Springer; Stephenson; Stickland; Stucky; Swanson;
 Talarico; Thierry; Thompson, E.; Thompson, S.; Tinderholt; Toth; Turner, C.;
 Turner, J.; VanDeaver; Vo; Walle; White; Wilson; Wray; Wu; Zedler; Zerwas;
 Zwiener.
        Nays — Johnson, J.E.; Ramos.
        Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Fierro.
        Absent, Excused — Johnson, E.
        Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Longoria.
        Absent — Pacheco.
                             STATEMENTS OF VOTE
        When Record No. 849 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                         Beckley
        When Record No. 849 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                     J.E. Johnson
                          HB 720 ON THIRD READING
                                  (by Larson)
      HB 720, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to appropriations of water for
 recharge of aquifers and use in aquifer storage and recovery projects.
      HBi720 was passed by (Record 850): 135 Yeas, 3 Nays, 2 Present, not
 voting.
     Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Beckley; Bell, C.; Bell,
 K.; Bernal; Biedermann; Blanco; Bohac; Bonnen; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy;
 Burns; Burrows; Button; Cain; Calanni; Canales; Capriglione; Clardy; Cole;
 Coleman; Collier; Cortez; Craddick; Cyrier; Darby; Davis, S.; Davis, Y.; Dean;
 Deshotel; Dominguez; Dutton; Flynn; Frank; Frullo; Geren; Gervin-Hawkins;
2578             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

 Goldman; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen; Gutierrez; Harless; Harris;
 Hefner; Herrero; Hinojosa; Holland; Howard; Huberty; Hunter; Israel; Johnson,
 J.D.; Johnson, J.E.; Kacal; King, K.; King, P.; King, T.; Klick; Krause; Kuempel;
 Lambert; Landgraf; Lang; Larson; Leach; Leman; Lopez; Martinez; Martinez
 Fischer; Metcalf; Meyer; Middleton; Miller; Minjarez; Morales; Morrison;
 Muñoz; Murphy; Murr; Neave; Nevárez; Noble; Oliverson; Ortega; Paddie;
 Parker; Patterson; Paul; Perez; Phelan; Price; Ramos; Raney; Raymond;
 Reynolds; Rodriguez; Romero; Rose; Rosenthal; Sanford; Schaefer; Shaheen;
 Sheffield; Sherman; Shine; Smith; Smithee; Springer; Stephenson; Stickland;
 Stucky; Swanson; Talarico; Thierry; Thompson, E.; Thompson, S.; Tinderholt;
 Toth; Turner, J.; VanDeaver; Vo; Walle; White; Wilson; Wray; Zedler; Zerwas;
 Zwiener.
       Nays — Fierro; González, J.; Meza.
       Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Moody(C).
       Absent, Excused — Johnson, E.
       Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Longoria.
       Absent — Anchia; Farrar; Hernandez; Lozano; Lucio; Pacheco; Turner, C.;
 Wu.
                            STATEMENT OF VOTE
      When Record No. 850 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted yes.
                                                                           Lozano
                         HB 133 ON THIRD READING
                           (by Canales and Ramos)
      HB 133, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the payment of gratuities to
 certain employees.
      HBi133 was passed by (Record 851): 88 Yeas, 54 Nays, 2 Present, not
 voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Beckley; Bernal;
 Biedermann; Blanco; Bowers; Burrows; Calanni; Canales; Clardy; Cole;
 Coleman; Collier; Cortez; Davis, S.; Davis, Y.; Dean; Dominguez; Dutton;
 Fierro; Frank; Frullo; Geren; Gervin-Hawkins; Goldman; González, J.; González,
 M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen; Gutierrez; Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa;
 Howard; Huberty; Hunter; Israel; Johnson, J.D.; Johnson, J.E.; King, K.; King,
 T.; Klick; Krause; Kuempel; Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Martinez; Martinez Fischer;
 Meza; Minjarez; Morales; Muñoz; Murphy; Neave; Nevárez; Oliverson; Ortega;
 Perez; Ramos; Raymond; Reynolds; Rodriguez; Romero; Rose; Rosenthal;
 Sanford; Sheffield; Sherman; Springer; Stephenson; Talarico; Thierry;
 Thompson, E.; Thompson, S.; Turner, C.; Turner, J.; VanDeaver; Vo; Walle;
 Wilson; Wu; Zwiener.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                       2579

      Nays — Allison; Bell, C.; Bell, K.; Bohac; Bonnen; Buckley; Burns;
 Button; Cain; Capriglione; Craddick; Cyrier; Darby; Flynn; Harless; Harris;
 Hefner; Holland; Kacal; King, P.; Lambert; Landgraf; Lang; Larson; Leach;
 Leman; Metcalf; Meyer; Middleton; Miller; Morrison; Murr; Noble; Paddie;
 Parker; Patterson; Paul; Phelan; Price; Raney; Schaefer; Shaheen; Shine; Smith;
 Smithee; Stickland; Stucky; Swanson; Tinderholt; Toth; White; Wray; Zedler;
 Zerwas.
        Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Moody(C).
        Absent, Excused — Johnson, E.
        Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Longoria.
        Absent — Bucy; Deshotel; Farrar; Pacheco.
                            STATEMENTS OF VOTE
        When Record No. 851 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                       Anderson
        When Record No. 851 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                     Biedermann
      When Record No. 851 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted yes.
                                                                            Bucy
        When Record No. 851 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                            Dean
      When Record No. 851 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted yes.
                                                                        Deshotel
        When Record No. 851 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                           Frank
        When Record No. 851 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                        Morrison
        When Record No. 851 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                       Oliverson
2580             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

       When Record No. 851 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                             Springer
       When Record No. 851 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                        E. Thompson
       When Record No. 851 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                               Wilson
                            POSTPONED BUSINESS
       The following bills were laid before the house as postponed business:
                      CSHB 4306 ON SECOND READING
               (by Biedermann, Nevárez, Cain, Miller, Murr, et al.)
      CSHB 4306, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to border security
 enhancement projects and the creation of a fund to pay for those projects;
 allocating the earnings on the balance of that fund and reimbursement of related
 expenditures.
      CSHB 4306 was read second time on April 30 and was postponed until
 6ia.m.itoday.
    Representative Biedermann moved to postpone consideration of
 CSHBi4306iuntil 1:30ip.m. today.
       The motion prevailed.
                        HB 2748 ON SECOND READING
                            (by Perez and Shaheen)
       HB 2748, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to regulation of the retail sale
 of fireworks.
       HB 2748 was read second time on April 23, postponed until April 25,
 postponed until 10ia.m.iApril 30, postponed until 8ip.m.iApril 30, postponed
 until 8:45ip.m.iApril 30, and was again postponed until 8ia.m.itoday.
      Representative Perez moved to postpone consideration of HBi2748iuntil
 10ia.m.iWednesday, May 8.
       The motion prevailed.
                       HB 3345 ON SECOND READING
                 (by Price, Lucio, Paul, Guillen, Lambert, et al.)
      HB 3345, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to health benefit coverage
 provided by certain health benefit plans for telemedicine medical services and
 telehealth services.
      HB 3345 was read second time on April 24 and was postponed until
 10ia.m.itoday.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019        HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                        2581

      Representative Price moved to postpone consideration of HBi3345iuntil
 10ia.m.iTuesday, May 7.
     The motion prevailed.
                      LEAVE OF ABSENCE GRANTED
     Pursuant to a previous motion, the following member was granted leave of
 absence temporarily for today to attend a meeting of the Conference Committee
 on HBi1:
     S. Davis on motion of Wu.
                     HB 1839 ON SECOND READING
          (by S. Thompson, Rodriguez, Allen, Morales, Farrar, et al.)
      HB 1839, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the allocation of housing
 tax credits to developments within proximate geographical areas.
      HB 1839 was read second time on April 24 and was postponed until
 10ia.m.itoday.
     Representative S. Thompson moved to postpone consideration of
 HBi1839iuntil 10ia.m.iTuesday, May 7.
     The motion prevailed.
                      CSSB 586 ON SECOND READING
                          (Neave - House Sponsor)
      CSSB 586, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the training of peace
 officers for family violence and sexual assault assignments.
     CSSB 586 was considered in lieu of CSHB 282.
     CSSBi586 was read second time and was passed to third reading.
          CSHB 282 - LAID ON THE TABLE SUBJECT TO CALL
     Representative Neave moved to lay CSHBi282 on the table subject to call.
     The motion prevailed.
                         MAJOR STATE CALENDAR
                              HOUSE BILLS
                            SECOND READING
     The following bills were laid before the house and read second time:
                    CSHB 3745 ON SECOND READING
         (by C. Bell, Rose, Capriglione, Zerwas, E. Thompson, et al.)
      CSHBi3745, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the Texas emissions
 reduction plan fund and account.
     CSHBi3745 was passed to engrossment.
2582             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

                      CSHB 4181 ON SECOND READING
                                 (by Geren)
       CSHBi4181, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the organization and
 efficient operation of the legislative branch of state government.
      Representative Geren moved to postpone consideration of CSHBi4181iuntil
 3ip.m.itoday.
       The motion prevailed.
                        GENERAL STATE CALENDAR
                              HOUSE BILLS
                            SECOND READING
       The following bills were laid before the house and read second time:
                       CSHB 406 ON SECOND READING
           (by Price, S. Thompson, Sheffield, Minjarez, Paddie, et al.)
      CSHBi406, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to organ donor registration
 information when applying for a hunting or fishing license on the Internet.
                       REMARKS ORDERED PRINTED
       Representative Ramos moved to print all remarks on HBi2384.
       The motion prevailed.
                      CSHBi406 - (consideration continued)
       CSHBi406 was passed to engrossment.
       (Goldman in the chair)
                        HB 1906 ON SECOND READING
                            (by Burns and Shaheen)
      HBi1906, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to an exemption from or
 federal waiver of the annual assessment requirements for public school students
 with significant cognitive disabilities.
 Amendment No. 1
     Representatives Hinojosa and Burns offered the following amendment to
 HBi1906:
       Amend HBi1906 (house committee printing) by striking all below the
 enacting clause and substituting the following:
       SECTIONi1.iiSection 39.023, Education Code, is amended by adding
 Subsections (b-2) and (b-3) to read as follows:
       (b-2)iiNotwithstanding Subsection (b), (b-1), or any other law, and to the
 extent consistent with federal law, the parent of or person standing in parental
 relation to a student with significant cognitive disabilities may request that the
 student be exempted from the administration of an alternative assessment
 instrument adopted or developed under Subsection (b) or (b-1). If a parent or
 person standing in parental relation makes a request for exemption under this
 subsection, the student ’s admission, review, and dismissal committee, in
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                            2583

 consultation with the parent or person standing in parental relation, shall
 determine if the student should be exempted from administration of the
 alternative assessment instrument. If the student is exempted from administration
 of the alternative assessment instrument under this subsection, the student must
 be assessed in the applicable subject using the alternative assessment method
 developed under Subsection (b-3).
       (b-3)iiThe commissioner, in consultation with stakeholders, including
 parents of and persons standing in parental relation to students with significant
 cognitive disabilities, shall develop for each applicable subject an alternative
 assessment method for the assessment of students who receive an exemption
 from the administration of an alternative assessment instrument under Subsection
 (b-2). The criteria for the assessment method must include progress on the goals
 identified in the student ’s individualized education plan. The commissioner shall
 adopt rules necessary to implement this subsection.
       SECTIONi2.iiSubchapter C, Chapter 39, Education Code, is amended by
 adding Section 39.0547 to read as follows:
       Sec.i39.0547.iiEVALUATING SPECIALIZED SUPPORT CAMPUSES. (a)
 In this section, "specialized support campus" means a school district campus that:
            (1)iihas a campus identification number;
            (2)iiserves students enrolled in any grade level at which state assessment
 instruments are administered; and
            (3)iihas a student enrollment in which:
                 (A)iiat least 90 percent of students receive special education
 services under Subchapter A, Chapter 29; and
                 (B)iia significant percentage of the students required to take an
 assessment instrument under Section 39.023:
                      (i)iitake an alternative assessment instrument under Section
 39.023(b) or (b-1); and
                      (ii)iiare unable to provide an authentic academic response on
 that assessment instrument.
       (b)iiThe commissioner, in consultation with administrators of specialized
 support campuses, teachers at specialized support campuses, parents and
 guardians of students enrolled at specialized support campuses, and other
 stakeholders, by rule shall establish appropriate accountability guidelines under
 this chapter for use by a specialized support campus in developing an alternative
 accountability plan under Subsection (c) based on the specific student population
 served by the campus. The commissioner shall provide for public notice and
 comment in adopting rules under this subsection.
       (c)iiA specialized support campus may develop and submit to the
 commissioner for approval an alternative accountability plan tailored to the
 student population served by the campus, based on the guidelines established
 under Subsection (b). The commissioner may approve the alternative
 accountability plan only if the plan:
            (1)iifollows the guidelines established under Subsection (b); and
            (2)iicomplies with applicable federal law.
2584            86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

      (d)iiNotwithstanding any other provision of this code, if the commissioner
 approves an alternative accountability plan developed by a specialized support
 campus under Subsection (c), the commissioner shall determine, report, and
 consider the performance of students enrolled at the campus using that plan.
      (e)iiNot later than December 1, 2022, the commissioner shall submit to the
 governor, the lieutenant governor, the speaker of the house of representatives, and
 the standing legislative committees with primary jurisdiction over public
 education a report on the effectiveness of this section in evaluating specialized
 support campuses and any recommendations for legislative or other action.
      (f)iiThis section expires September 1, 2023.
      SECTIONi3.iiNot later than January 1, 2020, the Texas Education Agency
 shall apply to the United States Department of Education for a waiver of the
 annual alternate assessment of students with significant cognitive disabilities
 required under the Every Student Succeeds Act (20iU.S.C.iSection 6301iet seq.)
 and the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20iU.S.C.iSection 1400iet
 seq.).
      SECTIONi4.iiThis Act applies beginning with the 2019-2020 school year.
      SECTIONi5.iiThis Act takes effect immediately if it receives a vote of
 two-thirds of all the members elected to each house, as provided by Section 39,
 Article III, Texas Constitution. If this Act does not receive the vote necessary for
 immediate effect, this Act takes effect September 1, 2019.
       Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
       HB 1906, as amended, was passed to engrossment.
                      CSHB 3950 ON SECOND READING
                        (by Frank, Minjarez, and Klick)
      CSHB 3950, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the establishment of the
 child welfare task force and provision of services in the child welfare system.
      Representative Frank moved to postpone consideration of CSHBi3950iuntil
 10ia.m.iFriday, May 3.
       The motion prevailed.
                        HB 351 ON SECOND READING
                  (by Blanco, Capriglione, Dean, and Minjarez)
     HB 351, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to emergency management for
 cyber attacks against this state.
       HBi351 was passed to engrossment.
                        HB 882 ON SECOND READING
                                 (by C. Bell)
     HB 882, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the duration of a bingo
 occasion.
       HBi882 was passed to engrossment.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019        HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                        2585

                       HB 354 ON SECOND READING
                            (by Herrero and Wu)
       HB 354, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to exemption of certain
 firefighters and police officers from jury service.
      Representative Wu moved to postpone consideration of HBi354iuntil
 4ip.m.itoday.
     The motion prevailed.
                     CSHB 2481 ON SECOND READING
                      (by Metcalf, Ramos, and Guillen)
      CSHB 2481, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the administration of a
 veterans treatment court program.
     CSHBi2481 was passed to engrossment.
                       HB 399 ON SECOND READING
                         (by Hernandez and Ramos)
     HB 399, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the period during which an
 employee may file a claim for unpaid wages with the Texas Workforce
 Commission.
     A record vote was requested by Representative Stickland.
      HBi399 was passed to engrossment by (Record 852): 81 Yeas, 61 Nays, 2
 Present, not voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Ashby; Beckley; Bernal; Blanco; Bohac;
 Bowers; Buckley; Bucy; Button; Calanni; Canales; Cole; Coleman; Collier;
 Cortez; Davis, Y.; Deshotel; Dominguez; Dutton; Farrar; Fierro; Geren;
 Gervin-Hawkins; González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen;
 Gutierrez; Harris; Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa; Howard; Israel; Johnson, J.D.;
 Johnson, J.E.; King, T.; Krause; Leach; Leman; Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Martinez;
 Martinez Fischer; Meyer; Meza; Minjarez; Moody; Morales; Muñoz; Neave;
 Nevárez; Ortega; Pacheco; Perez; Ramos; Raney; Raymond; Reynolds;
 Rodriguez; Romero; Rose; Rosenthal; Sheffield; Sherman; Stephenson; Talarico;
 Thierry; Thompson, S.; Turner, C.; Turner, J.; Vo; Walle; Wu; Zerwas; Zwiener.
      Nays — Anderson; Bailes; Bell, C.; Bell, K.; Biedermann; Bonnen; Burns;
 Burrows; Capriglione; Clardy; Craddick; Cyrier; Darby; Dean; Flynn; Frank;
 Frullo; Harless; Hefner; Holland; Huberty; Hunter; Kacal; King, K.; King, P.;
 Klick; Kuempel; Lambert; Landgraf; Lang; Larson; Metcalf; Middleton; Miller;
 Morrison; Murphy; Murr; Noble; Oliverson; Paddie; Parker; Patterson; Paul;
 Phelan; Price; Schaefer; Shaheen; Shine; Smith; Springer; Stickland; Stucky;
 Swanson; Thompson, E.; Tinderholt; Toth; VanDeaver; White; Wilson; Wray;
 Zedler.
     Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Goldman(C).
     Absent, Excused — Johnson, E.
2586            86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

       Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Davis, S.; Longoria.
       Absent — Cain; Sanford; Smithee.
                           STATEMENTS OF VOTE
       When Record No. 852 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                           Allison
       When Record No. 852 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                            Ashby
       When Record No. 852 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                          Buckley
       When Record No. 852 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                            Button
       When Record No. 852 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                            Harris
       When Record No. 852 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                            Leman
                      CSHB 1243 ON SECOND READING
                           (by Ashby, Price, et al.)
      CSHB 1243, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the allocation of certain
 revenue from mixed beverage gross receipts and sales taxes.
       CSHBi1243 was passed to engrossment.
                     CSHB 441 ON SECOND READING
            (by Bernal, Romero, Anchia, Stucky, S. Thompson, et al.)
     CSHB 441, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to requiring the Texas
 Workforce Commission to pay the cost of taking a high school equivalency
 examination for certain individuals.
       A record vote was requested by Representative Sanford.
      CSHBi441 was passed to engrossment by (Record 853): 76 Yeas, 63 Nays,
 3 Present, not voting.
     Yeas — Allen; Anchia; Beckley; Bernal; Blanco; Bowers; Bucy; Calanni;
 Canales; Capriglione; Cole; Coleman; Collier; Cortez; Davis, Y.; Deshotel;
 Dominguez; Dutton; Farrar; Fierro; Geren; Gervin-Hawkins; González, J.;
 González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen; Gutierrez; Hernandez; Herrero;
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                      2587

 Hinojosa; Howard; Israel; Johnson, J.D.; Johnson, J.E.; King, K.; King, T.;
 Lambert; Larson; Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Martinez Fischer; Meza; Minjarez;
 Moody; Morales; Morrison; Muñoz; Neave; Nevárez; Ortega; Perez; Ramos;
 Raney; Raymond; Reynolds; Rodriguez; Romero; Rose; Rosenthal; Sherman;
 Stephenson; Stucky; Talarico; Thierry; Thompson, S.; Turner, C.; Turner, J.;
 VanDeaver; Vo; Walle; White; Wu; Zerwas; Zwiener.
      Nays — Allison; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Bell, C.; Bell, K.; Biedermann;
 Bohac; Bonnen; Buckley; Burns; Burrows; Button; Cain; Clardy; Craddick;
 Cyrier; Darby; Dean; Flynn; Frank; Frullo; Harless; Harris; Hefner; Holland;
 Huberty; Hunter; King, P.; Klick; Krause; Kuempel; Landgraf; Lang; Leman;
 Metcalf; Meyer; Middleton; Miller; Murphy; Murr; Noble; Oliverson; Parker;
 Patterson; Paul; Phelan; Price; Sanford; Schaefer; Shaheen; Sheffield; Shine;
 Smith; Springer; Stickland; Swanson; Thompson, E.; Tinderholt; Toth; Wilson;
 Wray; Zedler.
        Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Goldman(C); Leach.
        Absent, Excused — Johnson, E.
        Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Davis, S.; Longoria.
        Absent — Kacal; Martinez; Pacheco; Paddie; Smithee.
                            STATEMENTS OF VOTE
        When Record No. 853 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                         Allison
        When Record No. 853 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                         Ashby
        When Record No. 853 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                        Huberty
        When Record No. 853 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                         Meyer
      When Record No. 853 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted no.
                                                                         Paddie
        When Record No. 853 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                       Sheffield
2588             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

        When Record No. 853 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                                 Toth
                      CSHB 2050 ON SECOND READING
                            (by Paddie and Price)
       CSHB 2050, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to consent requirements
 for the prescription of certain psychoactive medications to residents of nursing
 facilities and related institutions.
 Amendment No. 1
        Representative Paddie offered the following amendment to CSHBi2050:
      Amend CSHBi2050 (house committee printing) as follows:
      (1)iiOn page 1, line 7, strike "Subsection (c-1)" and substitute "Subsections
 (c-1) and (c-2)".
      (2)iiOn page 1, strike lines 15 and 16 and substitute the following:
           (2)iithe person prescribing the medication, [or] that person ’s designee,
 or the facility ’s medical director provided the following information, in a standard
      (3)iiOn page 2, line 18, strike "department" and substitute "commission".
      (4)iiOn page 2, between lines 19 and 20, insert the following:
      (c-2)iiWritten consent provided by a resident or the resident ’s legally
 authorized representative on the form described by Subsection (c-1) is presumed
 to satisfy the consent requirements of Subsection (c) and the disclosure
 requirements established by the Texas Medical Disclosure Panel in Sections
 74.103iand 74.105, Civil Practice and Remedies Code.
      SECTIONi2.iiAs soon as practicable after the effective date of this Act, the
 executive commissioner of the Health and Human Services Commission shall
 develop the form required by Section 242.505(c-1), Health and Safety Code, as
 added by this Act. In developing the form, the commission shall consult with the
 Texas Medical Disclosure Panel.
      (5)iiOn page 2, line 20, strike "SECTION 2" and substitute "SECTION 3".
        Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
            CSHB 2050 - STATEMENT OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT
 REPRESENTATIVE ISRAEL: Thank you for your bill, Mr. Paddie. I think it ’s a
 great bill. I just wanted to clarify, your intent is to make sure these antipsychotic
 drugs are the drug of last resort, is that correct?
 REPRESENTATIVE PADDIE: That is correct.
        CSHB 2050, as amended, was passed to engrossment.
                       HB 2303 ON SECOND READING
            (by Moody, P. King, S. Thompson, Guillen, Kuempel, et al.)
     HB 2303, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the definition of a bet for
 purposes of gambling criminal offenses.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                            2589

 Amendment No. 1
      Representative Nevárez offered the following amendment to HBi2303:
      Amend HBi2303 (house committee printing) by adding the following
 appropriately numbered SECTION to the bill and renumbering subsequent
 SECTIONS of the bill accordingly:
      SECTIONi____.iiSubtitle B, Title 13, Occupations Code, is amended by
 adding Chapter 2053ito read as follows:
   CHAPTER 2053. INDIAN TRIBE OFFERING FANTASY OR SIMULATED
                               GAMES OR CONTESTS
      Sec.i2053.001.iiDEFINITION. In this chapter, "fantasy or simulated game
 or contest" has the meaning assigned by Section 47.01, Penal Code.
      Sec.i2053.002.iiINDIAN TRIBE OFFERING FANTASY OR SIMULATED
 GAMES OR CONTESTS. (a) Any federally recognized Indian tribe in this state
 subject to the federal Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (Pub. L. No.i100-497) may
 offer fantasy or simulated games or contests on its Indian lands on execution of a
 model agreement by the tribe and with approval of the United States Secretary of
 the Interior pursuant to federal law.
      (b)iiA model agreement described by Subsection (a) may only include the
 following:
           (1)iiauthorization for the Indian tribe to offer fantasy or simulated games
 or contests on its Indian lands;
           (2)iia requirement that the fantasy or simulated games or contests be
 offered in compliance with rules adopted by the tribe that must include, at a
 minimum, consumer protection provisions;
           (3)iia requirement that the fantasy or simulated games or contests be
 regulated pursuant to a tribal gaming ordinance in accordance with federal law;
 and
           (4)iia requirement that the fantasy or simulated games or contests
 comply with all applicable federal law and regulations.
 Amendment No. 1 - Point of Order
      Representative Moody raised a point of order against further consideration
 of Amendment No. 1 under Rule 11, Section 2, of the House Rules. The point of
 order was sustained and the speaker submitted the following ruling:
                          RULING BY THE SPEAKER
                      on Amendment No. 1 to House Bill 2303
                      Announced in the House on May 1, 2019
                             (Goldman in the chair)
      Representative Moody raises a point of order against further consideration of
 the Nevárez Amendment to HBi2303 under Rule 11, Section 2, of the House
 Rules on the grounds that the amendment is not germane.
2590             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

       The subject of HBi2303 is exempting certain conduct relating to
 participation in a fantasy or simulated game or contest from the application of
 existing criminal penalties. The subject of the Nevárez Amendment is the express
 authorization of certain federally recognized Indian tribes to offer fantasy or
 simulated games or contests if federal approval is obtained.
       In the opinion of the Chair, the amendment is not on the same subject as the
 bill.
       Accordingly, the point of order is well-taken and sustained.
        The ruling precluded further consideration of Amendment No. 1.
        A record vote was requested by Representative Middleton.
      HB 2303 was passed to engrossment by (Record 854): 116 Yeas, 27 Nays, 2
 Present, not voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Anchia; Bailes; Beckley; Bell, C.; Bell, K.; Bernal;
 Biedermann; Blanco; Bohac; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy; Button; Calanni; Canales;
 Capriglione; Clardy; Cole; Coleman; Collier; Cortez; Craddick; Darby; Davis, Y.;
 Dean; Deshotel; Dominguez; Dutton; Farrar; Fierro; Flynn; Frank; Frullo; Geren;
 Gervin-Hawkins; González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen;
 Gutierrez; Harless; Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa; Holland; Howard; Huberty;
 Hunter; Israel; Johnson, J.D.; Johnson, J.E.; Kacal; King, P.; King, T.; Klick;
 Krause; Kuempel; Landgraf; Larson; Leach; Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Martinez;
 Martinez Fischer; Meyer; Meza; Miller; Minjarez; Moody; Morales; Morrison;
 Muñoz; Neave; Oliverson; Ortega; Pacheco; Paddie; Parker; Patterson; Perez;
 Phelan; Ramos; Raney; Raymond; Reynolds; Rodriguez; Romero; Rose;
 Rosenthal; Schaefer; Sherman; Shine; Smith; Stephenson; Stickland; Swanson;
 Talarico; Thierry; Thompson, S.; Tinderholt; Toth; Turner, C.; Turner, J.;
 VanDeaver; Vo; Walle; White; Wilson; Wray; Wu; Zedler; Zerwas; Zwiener.
      Nays — Allison; Anderson; Ashby; Bonnen; Burns; Burrows; Cain; Cyrier;
 Harris; Hefner; King, K.; Lambert; Lang; Leman; Metcalf; Middleton; Murphy;
 Murr; Nevárez; Noble; Paul; Price; Shaheen; Sheffield; Springer; Stucky;
 Thompson, E.
        Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Goldman(C).
        Absent, Excused — Johnson, E.
        Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Davis, S.; Longoria.
        Absent — Sanford; Smithee.
                            STATEMENTS OF VOTE
        When Record No. 854 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                          Lambert
        When Record No. 854 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                           Wilson
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                       2591

                     CSHB 2726 ON SECOND READING
                               (by Kuempel)
      CSHB 2726, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the commencement of
 construction of a project following the issuance of a draft permit for a permit
 amendment to an air quality permit.
 Amendment No. 1
     Representative Zedler offered the following amendment to CSHBi2726:
      Amend CSHBi2726 (house committee printing) as follows:
      (1)iiOn page 1, line 10, strike "law and notwithstanding Section 382.0518"
 and substitute "law, [and] notwithstanding Section 382.0518, and except as
 provided by Subsection (c)".
      (2)iiOn page 1, between lines 19 and 20, insert the following:
      (c)iiA person may not begin construction under this section if the facility
 that is the subject of the permit amendment is a concrete batch plant located
 within 880 yards of a property that is used as a residence.
      (3)iiOn page 1, line 20, strike "(c)" and substitute "(d)".
     (Speaker in the chair)
     Representative Kuempel moved to table Amendment No. 1.
     The motion to table was lost.
     Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
    Representative Kuempel moved to postpone consideration of
 CSHBi2726iuntil 10ia.m.iMonday, May 6.
     The motion prevailed.
                              POSTPONED BUSINESS
     The following bills were laid before the house as postponed business:
                    CSHB 4306 ON SECOND READING
             (by Biedermann, Nevárez, Cain, Miller, Murr, et al.)
      CSHB 4306, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to border security
 enhancement projects and the creation of a fund to pay for those projects;
 allocating the earnings on the balance of that fund and reimbursement of related
 expenditures.
      CSHB 4306 was read second time on April 30, postponed until
 6ia.m.itoday, and was again postponed until this time.
 Amendment No. 1
    Representative Biedermann offered the following amendment to
 CSHBi4306:
      Amend CSHBi4306 (house committee printing) as follows:
      (1)iiOn page 1, lines 12 through 13, strike "a special fund in the state
 treasury outside" and substitute "an account in".
2592            86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

      (2)iiOn page 2, line 9, strike "nonindigenous plants" and substitute "plants
 of one or more species identified by the governor".
      (3)iiOn page 2, strike lines 10 through 20 and substitute the following:
      Sec. 421.105. POWERS OF THE GOVERNOR. The governor may enter
 into contracts and agreements as necessary to carry out this subchapter.
      (4)iiOn page 2, line 25, strike "nonindigenous".
       Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
 Amendment No. 2
       Representative Gutierrez offered the following amendment to CSHBi4306:
      Amend CSHBi4306 (house committee report) by adding the following
 appropriately numbered SECTION to the bill and renumbering subsequent
 SECTIONS of the bill accordingly:
      SECTIONi____.ii(a) In this section:
           (1)ii"Board" means the Texas Water Development Board.
           (2)ii"Commission" means the Texas Commission on Environmental
 Quality.
           (3)ii"Water retention infrastructure" means infrastructure located within
 one mile of the Rio Grande River related to the retention of water.
      (b)iiThe board and the commission jointly shall:
           (1)iiconduct a study concerning the effects the construction of water
 retention infrastructure would have on storm drainage, water quality, and
 environmental contamination matters in this state; and
           (2)iidevelop recommendations for actions that may prevent or mitigate
 any negative effects on storm drainage, water quality, or environmental
 contamination matters resulting from the construction of water retention
 infrastructure.
      (c)iiThe study must investigate:
           (1)iiwhether and to what extent the construction of water retention
 infrastructure would cause or contribute to flood management or other storm
 drainage problems in this state;
           (2)iiwhether and to what extent the construction of water retention
 infrastructure would cause or contribute to negative environmental contamination
 or other environmental effects in this state;
           (3)iiwhether certain designs or methods of construction of water
 retention infrastructure would prevent or mitigate any negative effects identified
 under Subdivision (1) or (2) of this subsection;
           (4)iiany economic effects expected to result from any negative effects
 identified under Subdivision (1) or (2) of this subsection; and
           (5)iiwhat actions by the state would best prevent or mitigate any
 negative effects identified under Subdivision (1) or (2) of this subsection.
      (d)iiNot later than March 1, 2020, the board and the commission shall
 submit to the governor, the lieutenant governor, and each standing committee of
 the legislature having primary jurisdiction over water development and
 environmental matters:
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                            2593

          (1)iia report of the findings of the study conducted under this section;
 and
           (2)iirecommendations for actions that may prevent or mitigate any
 negative storm drainage, water quality, or environmental contamination effects
 resulting from the construction of water retention infrastructure.
      (e)iiThis section expires January 1, 2021.
       Amendment No. 2 was adopted.
 Amendment No. 3
       Representative Nevárez offered the following amendment to CSHBi4306:
      Amend CSHBi4306 (house committee printing) as follows:
      (1)iiOn page 1, line 8, between "SECURITY" and "ENHANCEMENT",
 insert "INFRASTRUCTURE".
      (2)iiOn page 1, line 10, between "security" and "enhancement", insert
 "infrastructure".
      (3)iiOn page 1, line 11, between "SECURITY" and "ENHANCEMENT",
 insert "INFRASTRUCTURE".
      (4)iiOn page 1, line 12, between "security" and "enhancement", insert
 "infrastructure".
      (5)iiOn page 1, line 20, between "security" and "enhancement", insert
 "infrastructure".
      (6)iiStrike page 1, line 22 through page 3, line 2, and substitute the
 following:
      Sec.i421.104.iiUSE OF FUND. The governor may use money in the fund
 only for activities described by this section undertaken for the purposes of
 preventing human trafficking and entry into the United States of contraband,
 including but not limited to narcotics and other controlled substances. The
 governor ’s use of the money in the fund is including and limited to the activities
 described in the pilot program developed and implemented under Section 2 of the
 Act enacting this subchapter.
      (7)iiOn page 3, strike lines 10 through 19.
      (8)iiOn page 4, between lines 3 and 4, insert the following:
           (1)iia county located on an international border with a population of
 more than 14,000 but not more than 15,000;
      (9)iiOn page 4, line 4, strike "(1)" and substitute "(2)".
      (10)iiOn page 4, line 6, strike "(2)" and substitute "(3)".
      (11)iiOn page 4, between line 13 and 14, insert the following:
           (1)iiplan, design, construct, or maintain along this state ’s international
 border:
                (A)iiwater infrastructure, limited to a bulkhead in a county located
 on an international border with a population of more than 240,000 but not more
 than 252,000;
                (B)iitransportation infrastructure, limited to Farm-to-Market Road
 1021, Farm-to-Market Road 1472, and the road popularly referred to as El Indio
 Highway and Old Mines Road;
                (C)iidetection technology to combat human smuggling and
 contraband, including but not limited to narcotics and other controlled
 substances; and
2594             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

                  (D)iicommercial vehicle inspection infrastructure at ports of entry
 and designated state highway inspection stations; and
             (2)iiclear nonindigenous plants; and
       (12)iiOn page 4, line 14, strike "(1)" and substitute "(3)".
       (13)iiOn page 4, line 19, strike "(2)" and substitute "(4)".
       (14)iiOn page 4, lines 20-21, strike "on main roads that run parallel to this
 state ’s international border".
       (15)iiOn page 4, line 23, strike "(3)" and substitute "(5)".
       (16)iiAdd the following appropriately numbered SECTION to the bill and
 renumber SECTIONS of the bill accordingly:
       SECTIONi____.ii(a) The Sunset Advisory Commission shall review the
 actions of the governor under this Act as if the authority provided by this Act
 were provided to a state agency subject to review under Chapter 325,
 Government Code (Texas Sunset Act).
       (b)iiThe review must assess the effectiveness of the governor ’s actions in
 fulfilling the purposes of this Act.
       (c)iiNot later than September 1, 2025, the Sunset Advisory Commission
 shall compete the review and deliver a report of its findings and
 recommendations to the legislature.
       Amendment No. 3 was adopted.
                         CSHB 4306 - POINT OF ORDER
     Representative Y. Davis raised a point of order against further consideration
 of CSHB 4306 under Rule 4, Section 32(c)(2), of the House Rules on the
 grounds that the bill analysis is vague and misleading.
       The point of order was withdrawn.
       CSHB 4306, as amended, was passed to engrossment.
                         GENERAL STATE CALENDAR
                           (consideration continued)
                         HB 2734 ON SECOND READING
                                  (by Burrows)
     HB 2734, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to an anatomical gift on
 behalf of a resident in a state supported living center.
 Amendment No. 1
       Representative Burrows offered the following amendment to HBi2734:
       Amend HBi2734 (house committee report) on page 1 as follows:
       (1)iiOn line 9, strike "to authorize the center to make an anatomical gift".
       (2)iiOn line 12, strike "and predeceases the resident".
       (3)iiOn line 13, strike "successor".
       Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
       HB 2734, as amended, was passed to engrossment.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019          HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                            2595

                      CSHB 2983 ON SECOND READING
                                (by Huberty)
      CSHB 2983, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the administration to
 public school students in certain grades of state-administered assessment
 instruments.
        CSHBi2983 was passed to engrossment.
                         HB 741 ON SECOND READING
                            (by Y. Davis and Ramos)
      HB 741, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the notice of rights provided
 to an injured employee under the Texas workers ’compensation system.
 Amendment No. 1
     Representatives Bailes and Kacal offered the following amendment to
 HBi741:
       Amend HBi741 (house committee printing) by adding the following
 appropriately numbered SECTIONS to the bill and renumbering subsequent
 SECTIONS of the bill accordingly:
       SECTIONi____.iiSection 408.183(b-1), Labor Code, is amended to read as
 follows:
       (b-1)iiNotwithstanding Subsection (b), an eligible spouse who remarried is
 eligible for death benefits for life if the employee was a first responder, as defined
 by Section 504.055, or an individual described by Section 615.003(1),
 Government Code, or Section 501.001(5)(F) of this code, who suffered death in
 the course and scope of employment or while providing services as a volunteer.
 This subsection applies regardless of the date on which the death of the first
 responder or other individual occurred.
       SECTIONi____.iiThe change in law made by this Act to Section
 408.183(b-1), Labor Code, applies only to an eligible spouse who remarries on or
 after the effective date of this Act. An eligible spouse who remarried before that
 date is governed by the law as it existed immediately before the effective date of
 this Act, and the former law is continued in effect for that purpose.
        Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
        HB 741, as amended, was passed to engrossment. (Hunter recorded voting
 no.)
                        HB 3542 ON SECOND READING
                                 (by Phelan)
      HB 3542, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the valuation of a retail
 public utility or its facilities as part of a voluntary acquisition.
2596             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

 Amendment No. 1
       Representative Metcalf offered the following amendment to HBi3542:
      Amend HBi3542 (house committee printing) on page 1, line 9, between
 "Class A" and "utility" by inserting "or Class B".
       Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
 Amendment No. 2
       Representative Springer offered the following amendment to HBi3542:
       Amend HBi3542 by adding the following appropriately numbered
 SECTIONS to the bill and renumbering subsequent SECTIONS of the bill
 accordingly:
       SECTIONi____.iiSubchapter E, Chapter 13, Water Code, is amended by
 adding Section 13.150ito read as follows:
       Sec.i13.150.iiREPORTS REQUIRED FOR WATER AND SEWER
 UTILITIES. (a) This section applies only to a utility that provides retail water or
 sewer utility service through fewer than 10,000itaps or connections.
       (b)iiExcept as provided by Subsection (c), a utility shall deliver to the utility
 commission a report of the utility ’s financial, managerial, and technical capacity
 to provide continuous and adequate service to its customers not later than the
 third anniversary of the date that the utility violates a final order of the
 commission by failing to:
             (1)iiprovide system capacity that is greater than the required raw water
 or groundwater production rate or the anticipated daily demand of the system;
             (2)iiprovide a minimum pressure of 35ipounds per square inch
 throughout the distribution system under normal operating conditions; or
             (3)iimaintain accurate or properly calibrated testing equipment or other
 means of monitoring the effectiveness of a chemical treatment or pathogen
 inactivation or removal process.
       (c)iiA utility that has an existing obligation to deliver a report under
 Subsection (b) is not required to deliver another report as a result of the
 occurrence of an event described by Subsection (b) if the event occurs before the
 date that the utility delivers the report required by Subsection (b).
       (d)iiOn receiving notice that a utility has violated an order described by
 Subsection (b), the commission shall provide written notice of the violation to the
 utility commission.
       (e)iiThe utility commission shall deliver a copy of a report received under
 Subsection (b) to:
             (1)iieach state senator representing a district that contains a portion of
 the service area of the utility that submitted the report; and
             (2)iieach state representative representing a district that contains a
 portion of the service area of the utility that submitted the report.
       (f)iiIf a utility fails to deliver a report in accordance with Subsection (b), the
 utility commission shall report the failure to:
             (1)iithe commission;
Wednesday, May 1, 2019          HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                            2597

            (2)iieach state senator representing a district that contains a portion of
 the utility s’ service area; and
            (3)iieach state representative representing a district that contains a
 portion of the utility ’s service area.
       SECTIONi____.iiSection 13.4132(a), Water Code, is amended to read as
 follows:
       (a)iiThe utility commission or the commission, after providing to the utility
 notice and an opportunity to be heard by the commissioners at a utility
 commission or commission meeting, may authorize a willing person to
 temporarily manage and operate a utility if the utility:
            (1)iihas discontinued or abandoned operations or the provision of
 services; [or]
            (2)iihas been or is being referred to the attorney general for the
 appointment of a receiver under Section 13.412; or
            (3)iiprovides retail water or sewer utility service through fewer than
 10,000itaps or connections and violates a final order of the commission by failing
 to:
                  (A)iiprovide system capacity that is greater than the required raw
 water or groundwater production rate or the anticipated daily demand of the
 system;
                  (B)iiprovide a minimum pressure of 35ipounds per square inch
 throughout the distribution system under normal operating conditions; or
                  (C)iimaintain accurate or properly calibrated testing equipment or
 other means of monitoring the effectiveness of a chemical treatment or pathogen
 inactivation or removal process.
       SECTIONi____.ii(a) Except as provided by Subsection (b) of this section, a
 utility that provides retail water or sewer utility service through fewer than
 10,000itaps or connections and that, not more than three years before the
 effective date of this Act, violated an order described by Section 13.150(b), Water
 Code, as added by this Act, shall submit a report described by Section 13.150(b),
 Water Code, as added by this Act, not later than the fifth anniversary of the event.
       (b)iiA utility that provides retail water or sewer utility service through fewer
 than 10,000itaps or connections and that has an existing obligation to deliver a
 report under Subsection (a) of this section is not required to deliver another report
 as a result of the occurrence of an event described by Section 13.150(b), Water
 Code, as added by this Act, if the event occurs before the date that the utility
 delivers the report required by Subsection (a) of this section.
      Amendment No. 2 was adopted.
      HB 3542, as amended, was passed to engrossment.
                     CSHB 2048 ON SECOND READING
              (by Zerwas, Darby, Krause, S. Davis, Howard, et al.)
      CSHB 2048, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the repeal of the driver
 responsibility program and the amount and allocation of state traffic fine funds;
 eliminating program surcharges; authorizing and increasing criminal fines;
 increasing a fee.
2598            86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

 Amendment No. 1
       Representative Zerwas offered the following amendment to CSHBi2048:
     Amend CSHBi2048 (house committee report) on page 5, line 8, between
 "Transportation Code," and "and" by inserting "under Section 10, Article
 4413(37), Revised Statutes,".
       Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
 Amendment No. 2
       Representative Krause offered the following amendment to CSHBi2048:
       Amend CSHBi2048 (house committee report) as follows:
       (1)iiOn page 5, line 26, between "fund" and the underlined semicolon, insert
 ",ito be used only for criminal justice purposes".
       (2)iiOn page 6, line 2, between "Health and Safety Code" and the period,
 insert ",ito be used only for the criminal justice purpose of providing trauma care
 and emergency medical services to victims of traffic offenses".
       Amendment No. 2 was adopted.
 Amendment No. 3
       Representative Howard offered the following amendment to CSHBi2048:
      Amend CSHBi2048 (house committee printing) as follows:
      (1)iiOn page 10, line 12, strike "In addition to" and substitute "Except as
 provided by Subsection (c), in addition to".
      (2)iiOn page 10, between lines 24 and 25, insert the following:
      (c)iiThe judge of the convicting court shall waive all or part of the fine
 required by Subsection (b) if the judge determines that the person is indigent or
 unable to pay all or part of the fine required by that subsection without undue
 hardship.
      (d)iiFor the purposes of Subsection (c), there is a rebuttable presumption that
 the person is indigent and qualifies for a full waiver if the judge determines that
 the person ’s net income is 125ipercent of the federal poverty level or less.
      (e)iiFor the purposes of Subsection (c), there is a rebuttable presumption that
 the person qualifies for a partial waiver if the person ’s net income is greater than
 125ipercent of the federal poverty level but less than 300ipercent of the federal
 poverty level.
       Amendment No. 3 was adopted.
 Amendment No. 4
       Representative Krause offered the following amendment to CSHBi2048:
       Amend CSHBi2048 (house committee report) as follows:
       (1)iiOn page 12, line 1, between "fund" and the underlined semicolon, insert
 ",ito be used only for criminal justice purposes".
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                            2599

      (2)iiOn page 12, line 4, between "Health and Safety Code" and the
 underlined period, insert ",ito be used only for the criminal justice purpose of
 providing trauma care and emergency medical services to victims of traffic
 offenses".
      Amendment No. 4 was adopted.
 Amendment No. 5
      Representative Darby offered the following amendment to CSHBi2048:
       Amend CSHBi2048 (house committee report) by adding the following
 appropriately numbered SECTION to the bill and renumbering subsequent
 SECTIONS of the bill accordingly:
       SECTIONi____.iiSections 780.004(c), (d), and (e), Health and Safety Code,
 are amended to read as follows:
       (c)iiIn any fiscal year, the commissioner shall use at least 94 [96] percent of
 the money appropriated from the account, after any amount the commissioner is
 required by Subsection (b) to reserve is deducted, to fund a portion of the
 uncompensated trauma care provided at facilities designated as state trauma
 facilities by the department or an undesignated facility in active pursuit of
 designation. Funds may be disbursed under this subsection based on a
 proportionate share of uncompensated trauma care provided in the state and may
 be used to fund innovative projects to enhance the delivery of patient care in the
 overall emergency medical services and trauma care system.
       (d)iiIn any fiscal year, the commissioner shall use three [not more than two]
 percent of the money appropriated from the account, after any amount the
 commissioner is required by Subsection (b) to reserve is deducted, to fund, in
 connection with an effort to provide coordination with the appropriate trauma
 service area, the cost of supplies, operational expenses, education and training,
 equipment, vehicles, and communications systems for local emergency medical
 services. The money shall be distributed on behalf of eligible recipients in each
 county to the trauma service area regional advisory council for that county. To
 receive a distribution under this subsection, the regional advisory council must be
 incorporated as an entity that is exempt from federal income tax under Section
 501(a), Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and its subsequent amendments, by
 being listed as an exempt organization under Section 501(c)(3) of that code. The
 share of the money allocated to the eligible recipients in a county ’s geographic
 area shall be based on the relative geographic size and population of the county
 and on the relative number of emergency or trauma care runs performed by
 eligible recipients in the county. Money that is not disbursed by a regional
 advisory council to eligible recipients for approved functions by the end of the
 fiscal year in which the funds were disbursed may be retained by the regional
 advisory council for use in the following fiscal year in accordance with this
 subsection. Money that is not disbursed by the regional advisory council in that
 following fiscal year shall be returned to the department to be used in accordance
 with Subsection (c).
2600             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

       (e)iiIn any fiscal year, the commissioner shall [may] use two [not more than
 one] percent of the money appropriated from the account, after any amount the
 commissioner is required by Subsection (b) to reserve is deducted, for operation
 of the 22itrauma service areas and for equipment, communications, and education
 and training for the areas. Money distributed under this subsection shall be
 distributed on behalf of eligible recipients in each county to the trauma service
 area regional advisory council for that county. To receive a distribution under this
 subsection, the regional advisory council must be incorporated as an entity that is
 exempt from federal income tax under Section 501(a), Internal Revenue Code of
 1986, and its subsequent amendments, by being listed as an exempt organization
 under Section 501(c)(3) of that code. A regional advisory council ’s share of
 money distributed under this section shall be based on the relative geographic
 size and population of each trauma service area and on the relative amount of
 trauma care provided. Money that is not disbursed by a regional advisory council
 to eligible recipients for approved functions by the end of the fiscal year in which
 the funds were disbursed may be retained by the regional advisory council for use
 in the following fiscal year in accordance with this subsection. Money that is not
 disbursed by the regional advisory council in that following fiscal year shall be
 returned to the department to be used in accordance with Subsection (c).
       Amendment No. 5 was adopted.
       A record vote was requested by Representative Stickland.
     CSHB 2048, as amended, was passed to engrossment by (Record 855): 144
 Yeas, 0 Nays, 1 Present, not voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Beckley; Bell, C.;
 Bell, K.; Bernal; Biedermann; Blanco; Bohac; Bonnen; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy;
 Burns; Burrows; Button; Cain; Calanni; Canales; Capriglione; Clardy; Cole;
 Coleman; Collier; Cortez; Craddick; Cyrier; Darby; Davis, Y.; Dean; Deshotel;
 Dominguez; Dutton; Farrar; Fierro; Flynn; Frank; Frullo; Geren;
 Gervin-Hawkins; Goldman; González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra;
 Guillen; Gutierrez; Harless; Harris; Hefner; Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa;
 Holland; Howard; Huberty; Hunter; Israel; Johnson, J.D.; Johnson, J.E.; Kacal;
 King, K.; King, P.; King, T.; Krause; Kuempel; Lambert; Landgraf; Lang;
 Larson; Leach; Leman; Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Martinez; Martinez Fischer;
 Metcalf; Meyer; Meza; Middleton; Miller; Minjarez; Moody; Morales; Morrison;
 Muñoz; Murphy; Murr; Neave; Nevárez; Noble; Oliverson; Ortega; Pacheco;
 Paddie; Parker; Patterson; Paul; Perez; Phelan; Price; Ramos; Raney; Raymond;
 Reynolds; Rodriguez; Romero; Rose; Rosenthal; Sanford; Shaheen; Sheffield;
 Sherman; Shine; Smith; Smithee; Springer; Stephenson; Stickland; Stucky;
 Swanson; Talarico; Thierry; Thompson, E.; Thompson, S.; Tinderholt; Toth;
 Turner, C.; Turner, J.; VanDeaver; Vo; Walle; White; Wilson; Wray; Wu; Zedler;
 Zerwas; Zwiener.
       Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker(C).
       Absent, Excused — Johnson, E.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019        HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                          2601

      Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Davis, S.; Longoria.
      Absent — Klick; Schaefer.
                            STATEMENT OF VOTE
      When Record No. 855 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted yes.
                                                                          Schaefer
                       HB 1191 ON SECOND READING
                  (by J.D. Johnson, Wu, Ramos, and Morales)
       HB 1191, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to an annual report
 concerning the number of inmates who have been in the conservatorship of a
 state agency responsible for providing child protective services.
      HBi1191 was passed to engrossment.
                       LEAVE OF ABSENCE GRANTED
     Pursuant to a previous motion, the following member was granted leave of
 absence temporarily for today to attend a meeting of the Conference Committee
 on HBi1:
      G. Bonnen on motion of Wu.
                        GENERAL STATE CALENDAR
                          (consideration continued)
                     CSHB 3582 ON SECOND READING
                   (by Murr, Moody, White, Wray, and Wu)
      CSHB 3582, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the punishment for
 certain intoxication offenses and the eligibility for deferred adjudication
 community supervision of defendants who committed certain intoxication
 offenses; enhancing a criminal penalty.
 Amendment No. 1
      Representative Smith offered the following amendment to CSHBi3582:
      Amend CSHBi3582 (house committee report) by adding the following
 appropriately numbered SECTIONS to the bill and renumbering subsequent
 SECTIONS of the bill accordingly:
      SECTIONi____.iiArticle 17.441(a), Code of Criminal Procedure, is
 amended to read as follows:
      (a)iiExcept as provided by Subsection (b), a magistrate shall require on
 release that a defendant charged with a subsequent offense under Section 49.04,
 49.05, or 49.06 [Sections 49.04-49.06], Penal Code, or an offense under Section
 49.045, 49.07, or 49.08 of that code:
           (1)iihave installed on the motor vehicle owned by the defendant or on
 the vehicle most regularly driven by the defendant, a device that uses a deep-lung
 breath analysis mechanism to make impractical the operation of a motor vehicle if
 ethyl alcohol is detected in the breath of the operator; and
2602            86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

           (2)iinot operate any motor vehicle unless the vehicle is equipped with
 that device.
       SECTIONi____.iiThe change in law made by this Act to Article 17.441,
 Code of Criminal Procedure, applies to a defendant released on bond on or after
 the effective date of this Act, regardless of whether the offense for which the
 person was arrested occurred before, on, or after that date.
       Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
       CSHB 3582, as amended, was passed to engrossment.
                      CSHB 1895 ON SECOND READING
                           (by Nevárez and Fierro)
     CSHB 1895, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the investigation of
 municipal fire fighters.
    Representative Nevárez moved to postpone consideration of
 CSHBi1895iuntil 3:30ip.m. today.
       The motion prevailed.
                     CSHB 1868 ON SECOND READING
                (by Lozano, Anderson, Zwiener, and Stephenson)
     CSHB 1868, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the creation of the Texas
 Rural Water Advisory Council.
 Amendment No. 1
       Representative Lozano offered the following amendment to CSHBi1868:
     Amend CSHBi1868 (house committee report) as follows:
     (1)iiOn page 2, line 15, strike "landowners" and substitute "users of
 groundwater".
     (2)iiOn page 3, line 5, strike "board" and substitute "council".
       Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
       CSHB 1868, as amended, was passed to engrossment.
                    CSHB 2747 ON SECOND READING
           (by Ortega, Landgraf, S. Thompson, Harless, and Ramos)
      CSHB 2747, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the licensing and
 regulation of massage therapy.
       CSHBi2747 was passed to engrossment.
                      CSHB 2025 ON SECOND READING
                             (by E. Thompson)
       CSHB 2025, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to legislative oversight of
 the issuance of driver ’s licenses and certain other forms of identification in this
 state.
       CSHBi2025 was passed to engrossment.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019          HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                            2603

                     CSHB 2945 ON SECOND READING
           (by Perez, S. Thompson, Longoria, Price, Goldman, et al.)
       CSHB 2945, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to payment card skimmers
 on motor fuel dispensers and to creating a payment fraud fusion center; imposing
 civil penalties; creating criminal offenses.
      CSHBi2945 was passed to engrossment.
                        HB 1548 ON SECOND READING
                          (by Springer and Middleton)
      HB 1548, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the operation of golf carts,
 neighborhood electric vehicles, and off-highway vehicles; authorizing fees.
 Amendment No. 1
      Representative Springer offered the following amendment to HBi1548:
      Amend HBi1548 (house committee printing) on page 37 as follows:
      (1)iiOn line 6, strike the last "and".
      (2)iiStrike line 7 and substitute the following:
           (4)iithe heading to Section 663.037, Transportation Code; and
           (5)iithe heading to Chapter 663, Transportation Code.
      Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
      HB 1548, as amended, was passed to engrossment.
                       HB 3231 ON SECOND READING
                    (by Clardy, Krause, Hefner, Ashby, et al.)
      HB 3231, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the regulation of firearms,
 air guns, knives, ammunition, or firearm or air gun supplies or accessories by a
 county or municipality.
 Amendment No. 1
      Representative Moody offered the following amendment to HBi3231:
      Amend HBi3231 (house committee printing) as follows:
      (1)iiOn page 1, line 8, strike "and (h)" and substitute "(h) and (i)".
      (2)iiOn page 5, between lines 16 and 17, insert the following:
      (i)iiThis section does not limit the enforceability of any state or federal law.
      A record vote was requested by Representative Stickland.
      Amendment No. 1 was adopted by (Record 856): 113 Yeas, 16 Nays, 1
 Present, not voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Beckley; Bernal;
 Blanco; Bohac; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy; Burns; Burrows; Calanni; Canales;
 Capriglione; Clardy; Cole; Collier; Cortez; Craddick; Darby; Davis, Y.; Dean;
 Deshotel; Dominguez; Farrar; Flynn; Frank; Frullo; Gervin-Hawkins; Goldman;
 González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen; Gutierrez; Harless;
 Harris; Hefner; Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa; Holland; Howard; Huberty;
 Hunter; Israel; Johnson, J.E.; Kacal; King, K.; King, P.; Kuempel; Lambert;
2604            86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

 Landgraf; Larson; Leman; Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Martinez; Martinez Fischer;
 Metcalf; Meyer; Miller; Minjarez; Moody; Morales; Morrison; Muñoz; Murphy;
 Murr; Neave; Nevárez; Noble; Ortega; Pacheco; Paddie; Parker; Perez; Phelan;
 Ramos; Raney; Raymond; Reynolds; Rodriguez; Romero; Rose; Rosenthal;
 Sanford; Sheffield; Sherman; Shine; Smith; Stephenson; Stucky; Talarico;
 Thierry; Thompson, E.; Thompson, S.; Toth; Turner, C.; Turner, J.; VanDeaver;
 Vo; Walle; Wilson; Wu; Zerwas; Zwiener.
      Nays — Cain; Cyrier; Dutton; Klick; Krause; Lang; Middleton; Patterson;
 Paul; Price; Schaefer; Shaheen; Stickland; Swanson; Tinderholt; White.
       Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker(C).
       Absent, Excused — Johnson, E.
       Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Bonnen; Davis, S.; Longoria.
     Absent — Bell, C.; Bell, K.; Biedermann; Button; Coleman; Fierro; Geren;
 Johnson, J.D.; King, T.; Leach; Meza; Oliverson; Smithee; Springer; Wray;
 Zedler.
                           STATEMENTS OF VOTE
      When Record No. 856 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted yes.
                                                                         K. Bell
       When Record No. 856 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                          Harris
       When Record No. 856 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                         Hefner
       When Record No. 856 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                         Metcalf
       When Record No. 856 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                         Wilson
      When Record No. 856 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted no.
                                                                           Wray
 Amendment No. 2
       Representative Cain offered the following amendment to HBi3231:
     Amend HBi3231 (house committee printing) as follows:
     (1)iiOn page 1, line 12, between "possession," and "carrying", insert
 "wearing,".
Wednesday, May 1, 2019          HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                          2605

     (2)iiOn page 6, line 1, between "possession," and "carrying", insert
 "wearing,".
      Amendment No. 2 was adopted.
 Amendment No. 3
      Representative Toth offered the following amendment to HBi3231:
       Amend HBi3231 (house committee printing) as follows:
       (1)iiOn page 5, line 24, strike "and (a-4)" and substitute "(a-4), and (a-5)".
       (2)iiOn page 5, line 25, between "law" and the comma, insert "and except as
 provided by Subsection (a-5)".
       (3)iiOn page 7, between lines 10 and 11, insert the following:
       (a-5)iiNotwithstanding any other law, a county may adopt a regulation that
 authorizes a person to carry a concealed or holstered handgun regardless of
 whether the person holds a license under Subchapter H, Chapter 411,
 Government Code, within the county if the person is not prohibited from
 possessing a firearm under Section 46.04, Penal Code, 18 U.S.C. Section 922, or
 other law. A county may not adopt a regulation under this subsection that is more
 restrictive than state law. Section 46.02, Penal Code, does not apply to a person
 who carries a handgun in accordance with a county regulation adopted under this
 subsection.
 Amendment No. 3 - Point of Order
       Representative Israel raised a point of order against further consideration of
 Amendment No. 3 under Rule 11, Section 2, of the House Rules on the grounds
 that the amendment is not germane to the bill.
      (Goldman in the chair)
      The point of order was withdrawn.
      Amendment No. 3 was withdrawn.
      (Speaker in the chair)
      HB 3231, as amended, was passed to engrossment.
                               POSTPONED BUSINESS
      The following bills were laid before the house as postponed business:
                      CSHB 4181 ON SECOND READING
                                 (by Geren)
       CSHB 4181, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the organization and
 efficient operation of the legislative branch of state government.
      CSHB 4181 was read second time earlier today and was postponed until this
 time.
    Representative Clardy moved to postpone consideratio n of
 CSHBi4181iuntil 4ip.m. today.
      The motion prevailed.
2606            86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

                        GENERAL STATE CALENDAR
                             (consideration continued)
                        HB 1883 ON SECOND READING
                          (by G. Bonnen, Guillen, et al.)
      HB 1883, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to deferred payment of ad
 valorem taxes for certain persons serving in the United States armed forces.
      HBi1883 was passed to engrossment.
                      CSHB 3012 ON SECOND READING
                    (by Talarico, Bernal, Ramos, and Meyer)
      CSHB 3012, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to requiring the provision
 of course work to public school students subject to in-school or out-of-school
 suspension.
 Amendment No. 1
      Representative Stickland offered the following amendment to CSHBi3012:
       Amend CSHBi3012 (house committee report) by adding the following
 appropriately numbered SECTION to the bill and renumbering subsequent
 SECTIONS of the bill accordingly:
       SECTIONi____.iiSection 37.011(b), Education Code, is amended to read as
 follows:
       (b)iiIf a student admitted into the public schools of a school district under
 Section 25.001(b) is expelled from school for conduct for which expulsion is
 required under Section 37.007(a), (d), or (e), or for conduct that contains the
 elements of the offense of terroristic threat under Section 22.07, Penal Code, the
 juvenile court, the juvenile board, or the juvenile board ’s designee, as
 appropriate, shall:
            (1)iiif the student is placed on probation under Section 54.04, Family
 Code, order the student to attend the juvenile justice alternative education
 program in the county in which the student resides from the date of disposition as
 a condition of probation, unless the child is placed in a post-adjudication
 treatment facility;
            (2)iiif the student is placed on deferred prosecution under Section 53.03,
 Family Code, by the court, prosecutor, or probation department, require the
 student to immediately attend the juvenile justice alternative education program
 in the county in which the student resides for a period not to exceed six months as
 a condition of the deferred prosecution;
            (3)iiin determining the conditions of the deferred prosecution or
 court-ordered probation, consider the length of the school district ’s expulsion
 order for the student; and
            (4)iiprovide timely educational services to the student in the juvenile
 justice alternative education program in the county in which the student resides,
 regardless of the student s’ age or whether the juvenile court has jurisdiction over
 the student.
       Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
       CSHB 3012, as amended, was passed to engrossment.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                          2607

                       LEAVE OF ABSENCE GRANTED
      The following member was granted leave of absence for the remainder of
 today because of important business:
      Gervin-Hawkins on motion of Minjarez.
                            POSTPONED BUSINESS
      The following bills were laid before the house as postponed business:
                      CSHB 1895 ON SECOND READING
                           (by Nevárez and Fierro)
     CSHB 1895, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the investigation of
 municipal fire fighters.
      CSHB 1895 was read second time earlier today and was postponed until this
 time.
    Representative Nevárez moved to postpone consideration of
 CSHBi1895iuntil 10ia.m. Tuesday, September 1, 2020.
      The motion prevailed.
      (Speaker pro tempore in the chair)
                        GENERAL STATE CALENDAR
                          (consideration continued)
                      HB 888 ON SECOND READING
               (by Landgraf, Phelan, Cyrier, Burns, Dean, et al.)
      HB 888, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to creating the criminal offense
 of misrepresenting a child as a family member at a port of entry.
 Amendment No. 1
     Representatives Rodriguez and Hernandez offered the following amendment
 to HBi888:
     Amend HBi888 (house committee printing), on page 1, line 19, by striking
 "deceive" and substituting the following:
 "engage in trafficking of persons (as defined by Texas Penal Code 20A.02)".
      Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
      (Longoria now present)
      HB 888, as amended, was passed to engrossment.
                       HB 3124 ON SECOND READING
                                (by Wilson)
      HB 3124, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to tuition and fees charged by
 The Texas A&M University System for certain national laboratory or national
 laboratory operator employees and dependents.
      A record vote was requested by Representative Stickland.
2608             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

      HBi3124 was passed to engrossment by (Record 857): 124 Yeas, 14 Nays, 2
 Present, not voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby; Bell, C.; Bell, K.;
 Bernal; Blanco; Bohac; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy; Burns; Burrows; Button;
 Calanni; Canales; Capriglione; Clardy; Cole; Coleman; Collier; Cortez; Craddick;
 Cyrier; Darby; Davis, Y.; Dean; Deshotel; Dominguez; Dutton; Farrar; Fierro;
 Flynn; Frank; Frullo; Geren; Goldman; González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin;
 Guerra; Guillen; Gutierrez; Harless; Harris; Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa;
 Howard; Huberty; Hunter; Israel; Johnson, J.D.; Johnson, J.E.; Kacal; King, K.;
 King, T.; Klick; Kuempel; Lambert; Landgraf; Larson; Leach; Leman; Longoria;
 Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Martinez; Martinez Fischer; Metcalf; Meyer; Miller;
 Minjarez; Morales; Morrison; Muñoz; Murphy; Murr; Neave; Nevárez;
 Oliverson; Ortega; Paddie; Parker; Paul; Perez; Phelan; Price; Ramos; Raymond;
 Reynolds; Rodriguez; Romero; Rose; Rosenthal; Sanford; Schaefer; Sheffield;
 Sherman; Shine; Smith; Smithee; Springer; Stephenson; Stucky; Talarico;
 Thierry; Thompson, E.; Thompson, S.; Turner, C.; Turner, J.; VanDeaver; Vo;
 Walle; White; Wilson; Wray; Wu; Zedler; Zerwas; Zwiener.
     Nays — Biedermann; Cain; Hefner; Holland; King, P.; Krause; Lang;
 Noble; Patterson; Shaheen; Stickland; Swanson; Tinderholt; Toth.
        Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Moody(C).
        Absent, Excused — Gervin-Hawkins; Johnson, E.
        Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Bonnen; Davis, S.
        Absent — Bailes; Beckley; Meza; Middleton; Pacheco; Raney.
                            STATEMENTS OF VOTE
      When Record No. 857 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted yes.
                                                                          Bailes
        When Record No. 857 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                     Biedermann
        When Record No. 857 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                            Cain
      When Record No. 857 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted no.
                                                                      Middleton
        When Record No. 857 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                       Patterson
Wednesday, May 1, 2019          HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                            2609

      When Record No. 857 was taken, my vote failed to register. I would have
 voted yes.
                                                                                Raney
                        MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE
      A message from the senate was received at this time (see the addendum to
 the daily journal, Messages from the Senate, Message No. 1).
                         GENERAL STATE CALENDAR
                           (consideration continued)
                        HB 3045 ON SECOND READING
                                 (by Nevárez)
      HB 3045, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the provision of solid waste
 disposal services in the extraterritorial jurisdiction of certain municipalities.
      HBi3045 was passed to engrossment.
                      CSHB 2041 ON SECOND READING
                   (by Oliverson, Phelan, Wray, Zerwas, et al.)
      CSHB 2041, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the regulation of
 freestanding emergency medical care facilities.
 Amendment No. 1
      Representative Oliverson offered the following amendment to CSHBi2041:
      Amend CSHBi2041 (house committee report) as follows:
      (1)iiOn page 2, lines 15-16, strike "and provide the disclosure statement
 required by that section".
      (2)iiOn page 7, line 12, strike "any" and substitute "all".
      Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
 Amendment No. 2
      Representative Oliverson offered the following amendment to CSHBi2041:
      Amend CSHBi2041 (house committee report) by striking page 6, line 25,
 through page 7, line 3, and substituting the following:
      (i)iiA facility complies with the requirements of Subsections (a)(1) and
 (d)(3) if the facility posts on the facility ’s Internet website in a manner that is
 easily accessible and readable:
           (1)iithe facility ’s standard charges, including the fees described by those
 subsections; and
           (2)iiupdates to the standard charges at least annually or more frequently
 as appropriate to reflect the facility ’s current charges.
      Amendment No. 2 was adopted.
2610            86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

 Amendment No. 3
    Representatives S. Davis and Oliverson offered the following amendment to
 CSHBi2041:
       Amend CSHBi2041 (house committee report) as follows:
       (1)iiOn page 4, line 18, strike "254.156 and 254.157" and substitute
 "254.156, 254.157, and 254.158".
       (2)iiOn page 7, between lines 16 and 17, insert the following:
       Sec. 254.158.iiREMOVAL OF SIGNS. A facility that closes or for which a
 license issued under this chapter expires or is suspended or revoked shall
 immediately remove or cause to be removed any signs within view of the general
 public indicating that the facility is in operation.
       SECTIONi7.iiSections 254.203(a) and (b), Health and Safety Code, are
 amended to read as follows:
       (a)iiThe department may petition a district court for a temporary restraining
 order to restrain a continuing violation of the standards or licensing requirements
 provided under this chapter or of Section 254.158 if the department finds that the
 violation creates an immediate threat to the health and safety of the patients of a
 facility or of the public.
       (b)iiA district court, on petition of the department and on a finding by the
 court that a person is violating the standards or licensing requirements provided
 under this chapter or is violating Section 254.158, may by injunction:
            (1)iiprohibit a person from continuing the [a] violation [of the standards
 or licensing requirements provided under this chapter];
            (2)iirestrain or prevent the establishment or operation of a facility
 without a license issued under this chapter; or
            (3)iigrant any other injunctive relief warranted by the facts.
       (3)iiRenumber the SECTIONS of the bill accordingly.
       Amendment No. 3 was adopted.
       A record vote was requested by Representative Beckley.
     CSHB 2041, as amended, was passed to engrossment by (Record 858): 131
 Yeas, 5 Nays, 3 Present, not voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Bell, C.; Bell, K.;
 Bernal; Blanco; Bohac; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy; Burns; Burrows; Button;
 Calanni; Canales; Capriglione; Clardy; Cole; Collier; Cortez; Craddick; Cyrier;
 Darby; Davis, Y.; Dean; Deshotel; Dominguez; Dutton; Farrar; Fierro; Flynn;
 Frank; Frullo; Geren; Goldman; González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra;
 Guillen; Gutierrez; Harless; Harris; Hefner; Hernandez; Hinojosa; Holland;
 Howard; Huberty; Hunter; Israel; Johnson, J.D.; Johnson, J.E.; Kacal; King, K.;
 King, P.; King, T.; Klick; Krause; Kuempel; Lambert; Landgraf; Lang; Larson;
 Leach; Leman; Longoria; Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Martinez; Metcalf; Meyer;
 Meza; Middleton; Miller; Minjarez; Morales; Morrison; Muñoz; Murphy; Murr;
 Neave; Noble; Oliverson; Ortega; Paddie; Parker; Patterson; Paul; Perez; Phelan;
 Price; Ramos; Raney; Raymond; Reynolds; Romero; Rosenthal; Sanford;
 Schaefer; Shaheen; Sheffield; Sherman; Shine; Smith; Smithee; Springer;
Wednesday, May 1, 2019       HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                           2611

 Stephenson; Stucky; Swanson; Talarico; Thierry; Thompson, E.; Thompson, S.;
 Tinderholt; Toth; Turner, C.; Turner, J.; VanDeaver; Vo; Walle; Wray; Wu;
 Zedler; Zerwas; Zwiener.
     Nays — Beckley; Biedermann; Cain; Stickland; White.
     Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Moody(C); Rose.
     Absent, Excused — Gervin-Hawkins; Johnson, E.
     Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Bonnen; Davis, S.
     Absent — Coleman; Herrero; Martinez Fischer; Nevárez; Pacheco;
 Rodriguez; Wilson.
                          STATEMENTS OF VOTE
      When Record No. 858 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted yes.
                                                                Martinez Fischer
      When Record No. 858 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted yes.
                                                                             Wilson
                          POSTPONED BUSINESS
     The following bills were laid before the house as postponed business:
                      HB 354 ON SECOND READING
                           (by Herrero and Wu)
       HB 354, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to exemption of certain
 firefighters and police officers from jury service.
      HB 354 was read second time earlier today and was postponed until this
 time.
     HBi354 was passed to engrossment.
                    CSHB 4181 ON SECOND READING
                               (by Geren)
       CSHB 4181, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the organization and
 efficient operation of the legislative branch of state government.
      CSHB 4181 was read second time earlier today, postponed until
 3ip.m.itoday, and was again postponed until this time.
      Representative Geren moved to postpone consideration of CSHBi4181iuntil
 9ia.m. tomorrow.
     The motion prevailed.
2612             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

                        GENERAL STATE CALENDAR
                          (consideration continued)
                        HB 3650 ON SECOND READING
                       (by C. Turner, Ramos, and Howard)
      HB 3650, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to an agreement between a
 school district and public institution of higher education to provide a dual credit
 program to high school students enrolled in the district.
       HBi3650 was passed to engrossment.
                       HB 3118 ON SECOND READING
                   (by Schaefer, Springer, Paddie, and Frank)
      HB 3118, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the titling of certain
 off-highway vehicles purchased outside this state.
       A record vote was requested by Representative Stickland.
      HBi3118 was passed to engrossment by (Record 859): 138 Yeas, 2 Nays, 3
 Present, not voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Beckley; Bell, C.;
 Bell, K.; Blanco; Bohac; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy; Burns; Burrows; Button; Cain;
 Calanni; Canales; Clardy; Cole; Coleman; Collier; Cortez; Craddick; Cyrier;
 Darby; Davis, Y.; Dean; Deshotel; Dominguez; Dutton; Farrar; Fierro; Flynn;
 Frank; Frullo; Geren; Goldman; González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra;
 Guillen; Gutierrez; Harless; Harris; Hefner; Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa;
 Holland; Howard; Huberty; Hunter; Israel; Johnson, J.D.; Johnson, J.E.; Kacal;
 King, K.; King, P.; King, T.; Klick; Krause; Kuempel; Lambert; Landgraf; Lang;
 Larson; Leach; Leman; Longoria; Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Martinez; Martinez
 Fischer; Metcalf; Meyer; Meza; Middleton; Miller; Minjarez; Morales; Morrison;
 Muñoz; Murphy; Murr; Neave; Nevárez; Noble; Oliverson; Ortega; Pacheco;
 Paddie; Parker; Patterson; Paul; Perez; Phelan; Price; Ramos; Raney; Raymond;
 Reynolds; Rodriguez; Romero; Rose; Rosenthal; Sanford; Schaefer; Shaheen;
 Sheffield; Sherman; Shine; Smith; Smithee; Springer; Stephenson; Stucky;
 Swanson; Talarico; Thompson, E.; Thompson, S.; Tinderholt; Toth; Turner, C.;
 Turner, J.; VanDeaver; Vo; Walle; White; Wray; Wu; Zedler; Zerwas; Zwiener.
       Nays — Stickland; Wilson.
       Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Capriglione; Moody(C).
       Absent, Excused — Gervin-Hawkins; Johnson, E.
       Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Bonnen; Davis, S.
       Absent — Bernal; Biedermann; Thierry.
                            STATEMENTS OF VOTE
       When Record No. 859 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                               Toth
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                        2613

        When Record No. 859 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                           Wilson
                       CSHB 3911 ON SECOND READING
                                   (by Vo)
    CSHB 3911, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the examination by the
 commissioner of insurance of certain insurers ’network quality and adequacy.
        A record vote was requested by Representative Beckley.
     CSHBi3911 was passed to engrossment by (Record 860): 110 Yeas, 27
 Nays, 2 Present, not voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Beckley; Bell,
 K.; Bernal; Biedermann; Blanco; Bohac; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy; Burrows;
 Button; Calanni; Canales; Capriglione; Clardy; Cole; Collier; Cortez; Craddick;
 Cyrier; Darby; Davis, Y.; Deshotel; Dominguez; Dutton; Farrar; Fierro; Flynn;
 Frank; Frullo; González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen; Gutierrez;
 Hernandez; Hinojosa; Holland; Howard; Huberty; Hunter; Israel; Johnson, J.E.;
 Kacal; King, K.; King, P.; King, T.; Kuempel; Lambert; Larson; Leach; Longoria;
 Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Martinez; Meyer; Meza; Miller; Minjarez; Morales;
 Morrison; Muñoz; Murphy; Neave; Nevárez; Noble; Oliverson; Ortega; Pacheco;
 Paddie; Parker; Paul; Perez; Phelan; Price; Ramos; Raymond; Reynolds;
 Rodriguez; Romero; Rose; Rosenthal; Sanford; Shaheen; Sheffield; Sherman;
 Shine; Smithee; Stephenson; Stucky; Talarico; Thierry; Thompson, E.;
 Thompson, S.; Toth; Turner, C.; Turner, J.; Vo; Wray; Wu; Zerwas; Zwiener.
     Nays — Bell, C.; Burns; Cain; Dean; Geren; Goldman; Harless; Harris;
 Hefner; Klick; Krause; Landgraf; Lang; Leman; Metcalf; Murr; Patterson; Raney;
 Smith; Springer; Stickland; Swanson; Tinderholt; VanDeaver; White; Wilson;
 Zedler.
        Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Moody(C).
        Absent, Excused — Gervin-Hawkins; Johnson, E.
        Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Bonnen; Davis, S.
     Absent — Coleman; Herrero; Johnson, J.D.; Martinez Fischer; Middleton;
 Schaefer; Walle.
                            STATEMENTS OF VOTE
        When Record No. 860 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                     Biedermann
        When Record No. 860 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                            Dean
2614             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

       When Record No. 860 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                           P. King
      When Record No. 860 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted yes.
                                                                  Martinez Fischer
      When Record No. 860 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted no.
                                                                        Middleton
      When Record No. 860 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted no.
                                                                          Schaefer
                      CSHB 2402 ON SECOND READING
                       (by Geren, Goldman, and Krause)
     CSHB 2402, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the eligibility of certain
 events to receive funding through the Major Events Reimbursement Program.
 Amendment No. 1
       Representative Krause offered the following amendment to CSHBi2402:
      Amend CSHBi2402 (house committee printing) as follows:
      (1)iiOn page 1, line 16, between "championship game," and "the National",
 insert "a Big 12iChampionship Game,".
      (2)iiOn page 2, line 5, between "championship," and "the Breeders ’", insert
 "a World Wrestling Entertainment event,".
      (3)iiOn page 2, line 9, between "(NASCAR)," and "the Academy", insert
 "the AAA Texas National Hot Rod Association (NHRA) Fall Nationals,".
      (4)iiOn page 2, line 22, between "Association," and "the National", insert
 "the Big 12iConference,".
      (5)iiOn page 2, line 27, between "(NASCAR)," and "Dorna", insert "the
 National Hot Rod Association (NHRA),".
      (6)iiOn page 3, line 15, strike "or" and substitute "[or]".
      (7)iiOn page 3, line 16, between "(I)" and "[(G)]", insert the following:
      World Wrestling Entertainment; or
               (J)
       Amendment No. 1 failed of adoption.
       A record vote was requested by Representative Stickland.
     CSHB 2402 was passed to engrossment by (Record 861): 111 Yeas, 31
 Nays, 2 Present, not voting.
     Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Bailes; Beckley; Bell, C.; Bell,
 K.; Bernal; Biedermann; Blanco; Bohac; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy; Burns;
 Burrows; Button; Calanni; Canales; Clardy; Cole; Collier; Cortez; Craddick;
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                       2615

 Darby; Davis, Y.; Dean; Deshotel; Dominguez; Dutton; Farrar; Fierro; Frullo;
 Geren; González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen; Gutierrez;
 Harless; Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa; Howard; Huberty; Hunter; Israel;
 Johnson, J.D.; Johnson, J.E.; Kacal; King, K.; King, T.; Klick; Kuempel;
 Lambert; Larson; Longoria; Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Martinez; Martinez Fischer;
 Meyer; Meza; Miller; Minjarez; Morales; Morrison; Muñoz; Neave; Nevárez;
 Oliverson; Ortega; Pacheco; Paddie; Parker; Paul; Perez; Phelan; Price; Ramos;
 Raney; Raymond; Reynolds; Rodriguez; Romero; Rose; Rosenthal; Sheffield;
 Sherman; Shine; Smith; Smithee; Springer; Stephenson; Stucky; Talarico;
 Thierry; Thompson, E.; Thompson, S.; Turner, C.; Turner, J.; VanDeaver; Vo;
 Walle; Wray; Wu; Zedler; Zwiener.
      Nays — Ashby; Cain; Capriglione; Cyrier; Flynn; Frank; Goldman; Harris;
 Hefner; Holland; King, P.; Krause; Landgraf; Lang; Leach; Leman; Metcalf;
 Middleton; Murphy; Murr; Noble; Patterson; Sanford; Schaefer; Shaheen;
 Stickland; Swanson; Tinderholt; Toth; White; Wilson.
        Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Moody(C).
        Absent, Excused — Gervin-Hawkins; Johnson, E.
        Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Bonnen; Davis, S.
        Absent — Coleman; Zerwas.
                            STATEMENTS OF VOTE
        When Record No. 861 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                     Biedermann
        When Record No. 861 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                           Cyrier
        When Record No. 861 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                        Goldman
        When Record No. 861 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                          Krause
        When Record No. 861 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                        Patterson
        When Record No. 861 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                         Sanford
2616            86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

       When Record No. 861 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                               Zedler
                        HB 2416 ON SECOND READING
                        (by Frullo, Longoria, and Blanco)
     HB 2416, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the administration by the
 Texas Workforce Commission of a workforce diploma pilot program.
      Representative Frullo moved to postpone consideration of HBi2416iuntil
 10ia.m.iMonday, May 6.
       The motion prevailed.
                      HB 3300 ON SECOND READING
                (by Murr, Wray, Meyer, Smith, Oliverson, et al.)
      HB 3300, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to an award of costs and
 attorney ’s fees in a motion to dismiss for certain actions that have no basis in law
 or fact.
       HBi3300 was passed to engrossment.
                      CSHB 4116 ON SECOND READING
                                (by Zwiener)
      CSHB 4116, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to a voluntary financial
 assurance program for permit holders under the Texas Pollutant Discharge
 Elimination System.
       CSHBi4116 was passed to engrossment.
                      CSHB 2321 ON SECOND READING
                               (by Morrison)
      CSHB 2321, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the regulation of oyster
 harvesting; increasing a criminal penalty.
       CSHBi2321 was passed to engrossment.
       (G. Bonnen now present)
                      CSHB 3167 ON SECOND READING
                      (by Oliverson, Goldman, and Thierry)
     CSHB 3167, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to county and municipal
 approval procedure for land development applications.
 Amendment No. 1
       Representative Oliverson offered the following amendment to CSHBi3167:
      Amend CSHBi3167 (house committee printing) as follows:
      (1)iiOn page 1, lines 9-11, strike "preliminary plat, preliminary subdivision
 plan, subdivision construction plan, site development plan, and final plat" and
 substitute "subdivision plan, subdivision construction plan, site plan, land
 development application, and site development plan".
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                            2617

       (2)iiOn page 1, line 12, between "a" and "replat", insert "preliminary plat,
 general plan, final plat, and".
       (3)iiOn page 1, lines 23-24, strike "Sections 212.009(a), (b), (c), and (d),
 Local Government Code, are amended" and substitute "Section 212.009, Local
 Government Code, is amended by amending Subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d) and
 adding Subsections (b-1) and (b-2)".
       (4)iiOn page 2, line 2, between "approve" and "or", insert ", approve with
 conditions,".
       (5)iiOn page 2, strike "[plat]" each time it appears (lines 2, 3, 6, 9, 10, 11,
 14, 15, 22, 24, and 25) and substitute "or plat".
       (6)iiOn page 2, strike "considered" each time it appears (lines 3, 10, and 12)
 and substitute "[considered]".
       (7)iiOn page 2, line 8, between "approve" and "or", insert ", approve with
 conditions,".
       (8)iiOn page 2, between lines 13 and 14, insert the following:
       (b-1)iiNotwithstanding Subsection (a) or (b), if a groundwater availability
 certification is required under Section 212.0101, the 30-day period described by
 those subsections begins on the date the applicant submits the groundwater
 availability certification to the municipal authority responsible for approving plats
 or the governing body of the municipality, as applicable.
       (b-2)iiNotwithstanding Subsection (a) or (b), the parties may extend the
 30-day period described by those subsections for a period not to exceed 30idays
 if:
            (1)iithe applicant requests the extension in writing to the municipal
 authority responsible for approving plats or the governing body of the
 municipality, as applicable; and
            (2)iithe municipal authority or governing body, as applicable, approves
 the extension request.
       (9)iiOn page 2, line 22, between "approve" and "or", insert ", approve with
 conditions,".
       (10)iiOn page 2, line 23, between "on" and "request", insert "the
 applicant ’s".
       (11)iiOn page 3, line 2, immediately after "212.0095,", add "212.0096,".
       (12)iiOn page 3, line 4, between the underlined colon and
 "DISAPPROVAL", insert "CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OR".
       (13)iiOn page 3, line 5, immediately after "that", add "conditionally
 approves or".
       (14)iiIn SECTION 5 of the bill, immediately after each time "plan" appears,
 insert "or plat" as follows:
                 (A)iipage 3, lines 6, 19, and 21;
                 (B)iipage 4, lines 2, 5, 8, 13, 15, and 20; and
                 (C)iipage 5, line 2.
       (15)iiOn page 3, line 7, between "the" and "reasons", insert "conditions for
 the conditional approval or".
       (16)iiOn page 3, line 8, between "specific" and "reason", insert "condition
 for the conditional approval or".
2618            86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

      (17)iiOn page 3, line 9, between "Each" and "reason", insert "condition or".
      (18)iiOn page 3, line 14, immediately after "the", insert "conditional
 approval or".
      (19)iiOn page 3, lines 16-17, strike "or intended to delay approval".
      (20)iiOn page 3, line 18, immediately after "TO", insert "CONDITIONAL
 APPROVAL OR".
      (21)iiOn page 3, line 19, between "the" and "disapproval", insert
 "conditional approval or".
      (22)iiOn page 3, line 21, between "that" and "disapproved", insert
 "conditionally approved or".
      (23)iiOn page 3, line 22, immediately before "remedies", insert "satisfies
 each condition for the conditional approval or".
      (24)iiOn page 4, line 1, between "previously" and "disapproved", insert
 "conditionally approved or".
      (25)iiOn page 4, line 4, immediately after "that", insert "conditionally
 approves or".
      (26)iiOn page 4, line 8, between "specific" and "reason", insert "condition
 or".
      (27)iiOn page 4, line 9, strike "for the original plan".
      (28)iiOn page 4, line 12, immediately after "previously", add "conditionally
 approved or".
      (29)iiOn page 4, line 13, between "each" and "reason", insert "condition of
 the conditional approval or each".
      (30)iiOn page 4, line 15, between "previously" and "disapproved", insert
 "conditionally approved or".
      (31)iiOn page 4, line 15, strike "considered".
      (32)iiOn page 4, between lines 22 and 23, insert the following:
      Sec.i212.0096.iiAPPROVAL PROCEDURE: ALTERNATIVE APPROVAL
 PROCESS. (a) Notwithstanding Sections 212.009, 212.0091, 212.0093, and
 212.0095, an applicant may elect at any time to seek approval for a plan or plat
 under an alternative approval process adopted by a municipality if the process
 allows for a shorter approval period than the approval process described by
 Sections 212.009, 212.0091, 212.0093, and 212.0095.
      (b)iiAn applicant that elects to seek approval under the alternative approval
 process described by Subsection (a) is not:
           (1)iirequired to satisfy the requirements of Sections 212.009, 212.0091,
 212.0093, and 212.0095ibefore bringing an action challenging a disapproval of a
 plan or plat under this subchapter; and
           (2)iiprejudiced in any manner in bringing the action described by
 Subdivision (1), including satisfying a requirement to exhaust any and all
 remedies.
      (33)iiOn page 4, line 24, strike "plans" and substitute "plats".
      (34)iiStrike page 5, line 7, through page 7, line 27.
      (35)iiOn page 8, line 2, strike "Sections 232.0005iand" and substitute
 "Section".
      (36)iiOn page 8, strike lines 4-7.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                            2619

       (37)iiOn page 8, line 8, strike "plan" and substitute "plat".
       (38)iiAdd the following appropriately numbered SECTION to the bill and
 renumber subsequent SECTIONS of the bill accordingly:
       SECTIONi____.iiThe heading to Section 232.0025, Local Government
 Code, is amended to read as follows:
       Sec.i232.0025.iiAPPROVAL PROCEDURE: TIMELY APPROVAL OF
 PLATS AND PLANS.
       (39)iiOn page 8, line 14, between "is amended" and "to read" insert "by
 amending Subsections (d), (f), (g), (h), and (i), and adding Subsection (d-1)".
       (40)iiStrike page 8, line 15, through page 9, line 12.
       (41)iiOn page 9, line 15, and page 10, line 13, strike "plan [plat]" and
 substitute "plat".
       (42)iiOn page 9, line 14, between "approve" and "or", insert ", approve with
 conditions,".
       (43)iiOn page 9, line 19, strike "considered".
       (44)iiOn page 9, strike lines 22-24iand substitute the following:
       (d-1)iiNotwithstanding Subsection (d), if a groundwater availability
 certification is required under Section 232.0032, the 30-day period described by
 that subsection begins on the date the applicant submits the groundwater
 availability certification to the commissioners court or the court ’s designee, as
 applicable.
       (45)iiOn page 10, line 6, strike "plan [a plat]" and substitute "[a] plat".
       (46)iiOn page 10, line 11, strike "(f)(2)" and substitute "(f)(1) [(f)(2)]".
       (47)iiOn page 10, line 16, strike "request or compel" and substitute "require
 [compel]".
       (48)iiOn page 10, line 16, strike "any other".
       (49)iiOn page 10, line 19, between "approve" and "or", insert ", approve
 with conditions,".
       (50)iiOn page 10, line 19, and page 11, line 3, strike "plan" and substitute
 "plat".
       (51)iiOn page 11, line 5, immediately after "232.0028,", insert "232.00285,".
       (52)iiOn page 11, line 7, between the underlined colon and
 "DISAPPROVAL", insert "CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OR".
       (53)iiOn page 11, line 8, immediately following "designee that", add
 "conditionally approves or".
       (54)iiIn SECTION 9 of the bill, strike "plan" each time it appears and
 substitute "plat" as follows:
            (A)iipage 11, lines 9iand 23;
            (B)iipage 12, lines 5, 9, 17, and 19; and
            (C)iipage 13, line 1.
       (55)iiOn page 11, line 10, strike "specific" and substitute "conditions for the
 conditional approval or the".
       (56)iiOn page 11, line 11, between "specific" and "reason", insert "condition
 for conditional approval or".
       (57)iiOn page 11, line 13, between "Each" and "reason", insert "condition
 or".
2620            86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

       (58)iiOn page 11, line 18, between "the" and "disapproval", insert
 "conditional approval or".
       (59)iiOn page 11, lines 20-21, strike "or intended to delay approval".
       (60)iiOn page 11, line 22, immediately after "TO", insert "CONDITIONAL
 APPROVAL OR".
       (61)iiOn page 11, line 23, between "the" and "disapproval", insert
 "conditional approval or".
       (62)iiOn page 11, line 25, between "that" and "disapproved", insert
 "conditionally approved or".
       (63)iiOn page 11, line 26, between "that" and "remedies", insert "satisfies
 each condition for the conditional approval or".
       (64)iiOn page 12, line 5, between "previously" and "disapproved", insert
 "conditionally approved or".
       (65)iiOn page 12, line 8, between "that" and "disapproves", insert
 "conditionally approves or".
       (66)iiOn page 12, line 12, immediately following "specific", add "condition
 or".
       (67)iiOn page 12, line 16, immediately after "previously", insert
 "conditionally approved or".
       (68)iiOn page 12, line 18, between "addresses" and "each", insert "each
 condition for the conditional approval or".
       (69)iiOn page 12, line 19, between "previously" and "disapproved", insert
 "conditionally approved or".
       (70)iiOn page 12, line 19, strike "considered".
       (71)iiOn page 12, between lines 26 and 27, insert the following:
       Sec.i232.00285.iiDEVELOPMENT PLAN REVIEW. (a) In this section,
 "development plan" includes a preliminary plat, preliminary subdivision plan,
 subdivision construction plan, site plan, general plan, land development
 application, or site development plan.
       (b)iiUnless explicitly authorized by another law of this state, a county may
 not require a person to submit a development plan during the plat approval
 process required by this subchapter. If a county is authorized under another law of
 this state to require approval of a development plan, the county must comply with
 the approval procedures under this subchapter during the approval process.
       (72)iiAdd the following appropriately numbered SECTION to the bill and
 renumber subsequent SECTIONS of the bill accordingly:
       SECTIONi____.iiSection 232.0025(e), Local Government Code, is
 repealed.
       (73)iiOn page 13, line 7, strike "development or plan" and substitute "plat".
       (74)iiRenumber SECTIONS of the bill accordingly.
       Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
       CSHB 3167, as amended, was passed to engrossment.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019        HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                         2621

                       HB 3753 ON SECOND READING
                                (by Harless)
       HB 3753, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the authority of a county
 fire marshal to provide fire-related training programs for first responders.
     HBi3753 was passed to engrossment.
                     CSHB 1848 ON SECOND READING
                       (by Klick, Sheffield, and Guerra)
    CSHB 1848, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to prevention of
 communicable diseases in certain long-term care facilities.
     A record vote was requested by Representative Beckley.
      CSHBi1848 was passed to engrossment by (Record 862): 142 Yeas, 2 Nays,
 2 Present, not voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Bell, C.; Bell, K.;
 Bernal; Biedermann; Blanco; Bohac; Bonnen; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy; Burns;
 Burrows; Button; Cain; Calanni; Canales; Capriglione; Clardy; Cole; Coleman;
 Collier; Cortez; Craddick; Cyrier; Darby; Davis, Y.; Dean; Deshotel; Dominguez;
 Dutton; Farrar; Fierro; Flynn; Frank; Frullo; Geren; Goldman; González, J.;
 González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen; Gutierrez; Harless; Harris; Hefner;
 Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa; Holland; Howard; Huberty; Hunter; Israel;
 Johnson, J.D.; Johnson, J.E.; Kacal; King, K.; King, P.; King, T.; Klick; Krause;
 Kuempel; Lambert; Landgraf; Lang; Larson; Leach; Leman; Longoria; Lopez;
 Lozano; Lucio; Martinez; Martinez Fischer; Metcalf; Meyer; Meza; Middleton;
 Miller; Minjarez; Morales; Morrison; Muñoz; Murphy; Murr; Neave; Nevárez;
 Noble; Oliverson; Ortega; Pacheco; Paddie; Parker; Patterson; Paul; Perez;
 Phelan; Price; Ramos; Raney; Raymond; Reynolds; Rodriguez; Romero; Rose;
 Rosenthal; Schaefer; Shaheen; Sheffield; Sherman; Shine; Smith; Smithee;
 Springer; Stephenson; Stucky; Swanson; Talarico; Thierry; Thompson, E.;
 Thompson, S.; Tinderholt; Toth; Turner, C.; Turner, J.; VanDeaver; Vo; Walle;
 White; Wilson; Wray; Wu; Zedler; Zerwas; Zwiener.
     Nays — Beckley; Stickland.
     Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Moody(C).
     Absent, Excused — Gervin-Hawkins; Johnson, E.
     Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Davis, S.
     Absent — Sanford.
                            STATEMENT OF VOTE
      When Record No. 862 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted yes.
                                                                          Sanford
2622             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

                       CSHB 3529 ON SECOND READING
                                (by Gutierrez)
      CSHB 3529, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the creation of a family
 violence pretrial diversion pilot program in Bexar County.
 Amendment No. 1
       Representative Gutierrez offered the following amendment to CSHBi3529:
     Amend CSHBi3529 (house committee printing) as follows:
     (1)iiOn page 1, line 5, following "Chapter", strike "493" and substitute
 "509".
     (2)iiOn page 1, line 6, following "Section", strike "493.032" and substitute
 "509.018".
     (3)iiOn page 1, line 7, strike "Sec.i493.032" and substitute "Sec.i509.018".
     (4)iiOn page 1, line 11, strike "executive director" and substitute "division".
     (5)iiOn page 2, line 8, strike "department" and substitute "division".
       Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
       CSHB 3529, as amended, was passed to engrossment.
                      CSHB 2454 ON SECOND READING
         (by Price, Sheffield, Minjarez, S. Thompson, VanDeaver, et al.)
      CSHB 2454, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to continuing education
 requirements for certain health professionals regarding pain management and the
 prescribing of opioids.
       CSHBi2454 was passed to engrossment.
                       CSHB 3980 ON SECOND READING
                                 (by Hunter)
      CSHB 3980, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to a requirement that the
 Statewide Behavioral Health Coordinating Council prepare a report regarding
 suicide rates in this state and state efforts to prevent suicides.
       CSHBi3980 was passed to engrossment.
                        HB 2245 ON SECOND READING
                                  (by Wray)
       HB 2245, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to trusts.
       HBi2245 was passed to engrossment.
                        HB 2246 ON SECOND READING
                                  (by Wray)
      HB 2246, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the fiduciary status of a
 directed trust advisor.
       HBi2246 was passed to engrossment.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                            2623

                      HB 1131 ON SECOND READING
                (by Cole, Ashby, Minjarez, Allen, Guillen, et al.)
      HB 1131, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the creation of a state
 financing program administered by the Texas Public Finance Authority to assist
 school districts with certain expenses; granting authority to issue bonds or other
 obligations.
 Amendment No. 1
      Representative Cole offered the following amendment to HBi1131:
       Amend HBi1131 (house committee report) as follows:
       (1)iiOn page 2, between lines 17 and 18, insert the following appropriately
 numbered SECTION and renumber subsequent SECTIONS of the bill
 accordingly:
       SECTIONi____.iiSection 45.057(b), Education Code, is amended to read as
 follows:
       (b)iiThe guarantee is not effective unless the attorney general approves the
 bonds under Section 45.005 or 53.40 of this code or Section 1232.1031,
 Government Code, as applicable.
       (2)iiOn page 3, line 26, following the underlined semicolon, insert "or".
       (3)iiOn page 3, line 27, between "valorem" and "tax", insert "maintenance".
       (4)iiOn page 4, strike lines 1-7, and substitute the following:
 authorized by law.
       (c)iiA school district that secures payment of an obligation or agreement
 issued or executed under Subsection (a) through imposing an ad valorem
 maintenance tax must include the obligation or agreement in the district ’s total
 maintenance tax debt service when submitting public securities for review to the
 attorney general under Chapter 1202, Government Code.
       (5)iiOn page 4, line 21, between "with" and "maintenance," insert
 "improvement of existing instructional facilities, limited to the".
       (6)iiOn page 4, between lines 26 and 27, insert the following appropriately
 lettered subsection:
       (____)iiVehicles, equipment, and appliances are considered furnishings of
 instructional facilities for purposes of Section 5(d), Article VII, Texas
 Constitution.
       (7)iiOn page 5, line 11, between "section" and "with", insert "only".
       (8)iiOn page 6, between lines 24 and 25, insert the following appropriately
 lettered subsections:
       (____)iiAn obligation issued under this section is not a debt of the state or
 any state agency, political corporation, or political subdivision of the state and is
 not a pledge of the faith and credit of any of those entities. The obligation may
 only be payable from all or part of the amounts on deposit in the school district
 equipment and improvement fund established under Subsection (e).
       (____)iiAn obligation issued under this section must contain on the
 obligation ’s face a statement to the effect that:
2624             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

            (1)iineither the state nor a state agency, political corporation, or political
 subdivision of the state is obligated to pay the principal of or interest on the
 obligation except as provided by this section; and
            (2)iineither the faith and credit nor the taxing power of the state or any
 state agency, political corporation, or political subdivision of the state is pledged
 to the payment of the principal of or interest on the obligation.
       (____)iiThe authority may not issue an obligation under this section until the
 Bond Review Board has approved the issuance under Chapter 1231, Government
 Code.
       (____)iiIn submitting an obligation for review under Chapter 1202 or 1371,
 as applicable, the authority shall demonstrate to the attorney general the ability of
 the eligible school district to repay the loan or other financing agreement
 executed with the authority.
       (9)iiReletter subsections of added Section 1232.1031, Government Code,
 and cross-references to those subsections as necessary.
       Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
 Amendment No. 2
       Representative Cole offered the following amendment to HBi1131:
      Amend HBi1131 (house committee report) as follows:
      (1)iiOn page 6, line 3, strike "outstanding at any one time".
      (2)iiOn page 6, line 4, following the underlined period, insert the following:
 An issuance of obligations to refund outstanding obligations is not included in
 determining the maximum aggregate amount under this subsection if the principal
 amount of the refunding obligations does not exceed the principal amount of the
 refunded obligations. If the principal amount of the refunding obligations exceeds
 the principal amount of the refunded obligations, the excess amount of the
 refunding obligations is included in determining the maximum aggregate amount.
       Amendment No. 2 was adopted.
       A record vote was requested by Representative Cain.
     HB 1131, as amended, was passed to engrossment by (Record 863): 82
 Yeas, 60 Nays, 2 Present, not voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Beckley; Bell,
 K.; Bernal; Blanco; Bowers; Bucy; Calanni; Canales; Clardy; Cole; Coleman;
 Collier; Cortez; Davis, Y.; Deshotel; Dominguez; Farrar; Fierro; Geren;
 González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen; Gutierrez; Harless;
 Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa; Howard; Huberty; Israel; Johnson, J.E.; King, K.;
 King, T.; Kuempel; Lambert; Longoria; Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Martinez;
 Martinez Fischer; Meyer; Meza; Minjarez; Morales; Morrison; Muñoz; Neave;
 Nevárez; Ortega; Pacheco; Perez; Ramos; Raney; Raymond; Reynolds;
 Rodriguez; Romero; Rose; Rosenthal; Sheffield; Sherman; Stucky; Talarico;
 Thierry; Thompson, E.; Turner, C.; Turner, J.; Vo; Walle; White; Wray; Wu;
 Zwiener.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                        2625

      Nays — Bell, C.; Biedermann; Bohac; Bonnen; Buckley; Burns; Burrows;
 Button; Cain; Capriglione; Craddick; Cyrier; Darby; Dean; Flynn; Frank; Frullo;
 Goldman; Harris; Hefner; Holland; Hunter; Kacal; Klick; Krause; Landgraf;
 Lang; Larson; Leach; Leman; Metcalf; Middleton; Miller; Murphy; Murr; Noble;
 Oliverson; Paddie; Parker; Patterson; Paul; Phelan; Price; Sanford; Schaefer;
 Shaheen; Shine; Smith; Smithee; Springer; Stephenson; Stickland; Swanson;
 Thompson, S.; Tinderholt; Toth; VanDeaver; Wilson; Zedler; Zerwas.
        Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker; Moody(C).
        Absent, Excused — Gervin-Hawkins; Johnson, E.
        Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Davis, S.
        Absent — Dutton; Johnson, J.D.; King, P.
                            STATEMENTS OF VOTE
        When Record No. 863 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                        Anderson
        When Record No. 863 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                          K. Bell
     When Record No. 863 was taken, I was temporarily out of the house
 chamber in the governor ’s office. I would have voted no.
                                                                          P. King
        When Record No. 863 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                    E. Thompson
        When Record No. 863 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                    S. Thompson
        When Record No. 863 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                            Wray
                        CSHB 72 ON SECOND READING
                       (by White, Howard, Wu, Meza, et al.)
     CSHB 72, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the provision of Medicaid
 benefits to certain children formerly in the conservatorship of the Department of
 Family and Protective Services.
        CSHBi72 was passed to engrossment.
2626             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

                     CSHB 2363 ON SECOND READING
               (by Harris, Noble, Hefner, Longoria, Canales, et al.)
     CSHB 2363, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to permitting certain foster
 homes to store firearms and ammunition in the same locked location.
 Amendment No. 1
       Representative Meza offered the following amendment to CSHBi2363:
      Amend CSHBi2363 (house committee printing) on page 1, line 13, between
 "location" and "[locations]", by inserting "if the locked location is only accessible
 using a biometric identifier or a numeric code".
       (Speaker in the chair)
       Representative Harris moved to table Amendment No. 1.
       A record vote was requested by Representative Sanford.
      The motion to table prevailed by (Record 864): 82 Yeas, 61 Nays, 1 Present,
 not voting.
      Yeas — Allison; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Bell, C.; Bell, K.; Biedermann;
 Bohac; Bonnen; Buckley; Burns; Burrows; Button; Cain; Capriglione; Clardy;
 Craddick; Cyrier; Darby; Dean; Flynn; Frank; Frullo; Geren; Goldman; Harless;
 Harris; Hefner; Holland; Huberty; Hunter; Kacal; King, K.; King, P.; King, T.;
 Klick; Krause; Kuempel; Lambert; Landgraf; Lang; Larson; Leach; Leman;
 Lozano; Metcalf; Meyer; Middleton; Miller; Morrison; Murphy; Murr; Noble;
 Oliverson; Paddie; Parker; Patterson; Paul; Phelan; Price; Raney; Sanford;
 Schaefer; Shaheen; Shine; Smith; Smithee; Springer; Stephenson; Stickland;
 Stucky; Swanson; Thierry; Thompson, E.; Tinderholt; Toth; VanDeaver; White;
 Wilson; Wray; Zedler; Zerwas.
      Nays — Allen; Anchia; Beckley; Bernal; Blanco; Bowers; Bucy; Calanni;
 Canales; Cole; Coleman; Collier; Cortez; Davis, Y.; Deshotel; Dominguez;
 Dutton; Farrar; Fierro; González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen;
 Gutierrez; Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa; Howard; Israel; Johnson, J.E.;
 Longoria; Lopez; Lucio; Martinez; Martinez Fischer; Meza; Minjarez; Moody;
 Morales; Muñoz; Neave; Ortega; Pacheco; Perez; Ramos; Raymond; Reynolds;
 Rodriguez; Romero; Rose; Rosenthal; Sheffield; Sherman; Talarico; Thompson,
 S.; Turner, C.; Turner, J.; Vo; Wu; Zwiener.
       Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker(C).
       Absent, Excused — Gervin-Hawkins; Johnson, E.
       Absent, Excused, Committee Meeting — Davis, S.
       Absent — Johnson, J.D.; Nevárez; Walle.
       CSHB 2363 was passed to engrossment.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                           2627

                       HB 4671 ON SECOND READING
                           (by Goodwin and Bucy)
      HB 4671, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the powers and duties of
 the Ranch at Cypress Creek Municipal Utility District No. 1.
      HBi4671 was passed to engrossment.
                     CSHB 2763 ON SECOND READING
          (by Flynn, Murphy, Paul, Gervin-Hawkins, and Middleton)
      CSHB 2763, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the police pension fund
 in certain municipalities.
      CSHBi2763 was passed to engrossment.
                      CSHB 2625 ON SECOND READING
                   (by Perez, Longoria, Moody, and Goldman)
      CSHB 2625, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to creating the criminal
 offense of mass fraudulent use or possession of credit card or debit card
 information.
 Amendment No. 1
      Representative Perez offered the following amendment to CSHBi2625:
      Amend CSHBi2625 (house committee printing) as follows:
      (1)iiOn page 1, line 7, strike "MASS".
      (2)iiOn page 2, strike lines 9-16 and substitute the following:
           (1)iia counterfeit credit card or debit card;
           (2)iithe number and expiration date of a credit card or debit card without
 the consent of the account holder; or
           (3)iithe data stored on the digital imprint of a credit card or debit card
 without the consent of the account holder.
      (3)iiOn page 2, between lines 25 and 26, insert the following:
           (1)iia state jail felony if the number of items obtained, possessed,
 transferred, or used is less than five;
      (4)iiOn page 2, line 26, strike "(1)" and substitute "(2)".
      (5)iiOn page 3, line 2, strike "(2)" and substitute "(3)".
      (6)iiOn page 3, line 5, strike "(3)" and substitute "(4)".
      (7)iiOn page 3, line 8, strike "or (2)" and substitute ", (2), or (3)".
      Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
 Amendment No. 2
      Representative Wu offered the following amendment to CSHBi2625:
      Amend CSHBi2625 (house committee printing) by striking page 3, lines
 7-11, and relettering subsequent subsections of added Section 32.315, Penal
 Code, accordingly.
      Amendment No. 2 was adopted.
      CSHB 2625, as amended, was passed to engrossment.
2628             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

                      CSHB 1063 ON SECOND READING
              (by Price, Sheffield, Rose, Ashby, M. González, et al.)
      CSHB 1063, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to telemedicine medical,
 telehealth, and home telemonitoring services under Medicaid.
       CSHBi1063 was passed to engrossment.
                    CSHB 2826 ON SECOND READING
       (by G. Bonnen, Leach, Goldman, Gervin-Hawkins, Longoria, et al.)
      CSHB 2826, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to procurement of a
 contingent fee contract for legal services by certain governmental entities.
       (S. Davis now present)
 Amendment No. 1
       Representative Huberty offered the following amendment to CSHBi2826:
     Amend CSHBi2826 as follows:
     (1)iiOn page 1, line 10, strike "(a) and (b)" and insert "(a), (b), and (c)".
     (2)iiOn page 1, insert the following between lines 20 and 21:
     (c)iiThis subchapter does not apply to a contract:
          (1)iiwith a state agency to collect an obligation under Section
 2107.003(b), (c), or (c-1); [or]
          (2)iifor legal services entered into by an institution of higher education
 under Section 153.006, Education Code; or
          (3)iifor legal services provided to a school district under Subchapter M,
 Chapter 403.
       Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
 Amendment No. 2
       Representative Clardy offered the following amendment to CSHBi2826:
      Amend CSHBi2826 as follows:
      (1)iiOn page 1, line 22, strike "33.41" and insert "6.30".
      (2)iiOn page 1, line 22, insert "Article 103.0031, Texas Code of Criminal
 Procedure" between the comma and "or".
      (3)iiOn page 3, line 11, delete "governing body of the".
      (4)iiDelete lines 25 through 27 on page 3 and replace them with the
 following:
 "the reasons the legal services cannot be adequately performed by the attorneys
 and supporting personnel of the political subdivision;"
      (5)iiOn page 4, line 9, delete the colon and replace with "the matters listed in
 Subsection (a)(1)."
      (6)iiDelete lines 10 through 15 on page 4.
      (7)iiOn page 4, at the end of line 23, insert "and".
      (8)iiOn page 5, line 3, delete "; and" and insert ".".
      (9)iiDelete lines 4 through 7 on page 5.
      (10)iiDelete lines 21 and 22 on page 5 and renumber the following
 paragraphs accordingly.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019          HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                            2629

      (11)iiOn page 5, line 25, insert "and".
      (12)iiOn page 5, line 27, delete "; and" and insert ".".
      (13)iiDelete lines 1 and 2 on page 6.
      (14)iiOn page 9, line 12, insert:
 "A contract that is submitted to and approved by the attorney general under
 Section 2254.1038 cannot later be declared void under this section."
      Amendment No. 2 was adopted.
 Amendment No. 3
      Representative Lucio offered the following amendment to CSHBi2826:
       Amend CSHBi2826 as follows:
       (1)iiOn page 6, delete lines 3 through 13 and replace them with the
 following:
       (b)iiWithin 90 days after receiving a contract from a political subdivision,
 the attorney general may:
            (1)iiapprove the contract;
            (2)iirefuse to approve the contract because the requirements of this
 subchapter were not fulfilled; or
            (3)iirefuse to approve the contract because:
                 (A)iithe legal matter that is the subject of the contract presents one
 or more questions of law or fact that are in common with a matter the state has
 already addressed or is pursuing; and
                 (B)iipursuit of the matter by the political subdivision will not
 promote the just and efficient resolution of the matter.
       (2)iiOn page 6, between lines 19 and 20, insert the following and renumber
 the remaining subsections accordingly:
       (d)iiIf the attorney general refuses to approve a contract under Subsection
 (b)(2), the attorney general shall specifically identify the provisions of this
 subchapter with which the contract fails to comply or the political subdivision
 failed to comply. Nothing in this section prohibits a political subdivision from
 correcting a failure to comply with this subchapter.
       (e)iiIf the attorney general refuses to approve a contract under Subsection
 (b)(3), the attorney general shall inform the political subdivision of the factual
 and legal basis for the decision.
       (f)iiA political subdivision may contest the attorney general ’s refusal to
 approve the contract under Subsection (b)(3) in the manner provided for
 contested cases under Chapter 2001.
       (g)iiThe state office of administrative hearings shall establish procedures to
 govern a contest to the attorney general ’s refusal to approve a contract under
 Subsection (b)(3) and for in camera review and protection from disclosure of
 information excepted from disclosure under Chapter 552 in a contested case
 under this subsection.
       (h)iiThe refusal to approve a contract under Subsection (b)(3) is subject to
 substantial evidence judicial review as provided in Subchapter G, Chapter 2001.
      Amendment No. 3 was adopted.
      CSHB 2826, as amended, was passed to engrossment. (Collier recorded
 voting present, not voting.)
2630             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

                     CSHB 4296 ON SECOND READING
             (by Schaefer, Guillen, Phelan, Morrison, P. King, et al.)
      CSHB 4296, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the regulation of
 plumbing, including the requirements to obtain a tradesman plumber-limited
 license.
                        CSHB 4296 - POINT OF ORDER
     Representative C. Turner raised a point of order against further consideration
 of CSHB 4296 under Rule 4, Section 32(b)(4), of the House Rules on the
 grounds that the date on the committee report is incorrect.
       The point of order was withdrawn.
 Amendment No. 1
       Representative Schaefer offered the following amendment to CSHBi4296:
     Amend CSHBi4296 (house committee printing) as follows:
     (1)iiOn page 2, line 8, following the underlined period, insert the following:
 The board may not require the person to register as a plumber ’s apprentice, pay
 any fee, or comply with Section 1301.354ior any other requirement of this
 chapter that applies to a person ’s eligibility to apply for and take the examination.
     (2)iiOn page 2, line 12, between "with" and "any", insert "Section
 1301.354ior".
       Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
       CSHB 4296, as amended, was passed to engrossment.
                        HB 2780 ON SECOND READING
                                  (by Wray)
     HB 2780, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to obsolete references to the
 Texas Probate Code.
       HBi2780 was passed to engrossment.
                      CSHB 3809 ON SECOND READING
                         (by Goldman, Meyer, et al.)
      CSHB 3809, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the accrual of and
 limitations periods for personal injury claims that arise from certain offenses
 involving child sexual abuse.
 Amendment No. 1
       Representative Goldman offered the following amendment to CSHBi3809:
       Amend CSHBi3809 (house committee printing) on page 2, lines 8 and 9, by
 striking "a person or persons" and substituting "an individual or individuals".
       Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
       CSHB 3809, as amended, was passed to engrossment.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                           2631

                        HB 332 ON SECOND READING
                                (by Nevárez)
     HB 332, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the eligibility of a retired or
 former judge for assignment in certain proceedings.
 Amendment No. 1
      Representative Nevárez offered the following amendment to HBi332:
      Amend HBi332 (house committee report) as follows:
      (1)iiOn page 1, lines 9 and 10, strike "four terms of office [96 months]" and
 substitute "96 months".
      (2)iiOn page 1, line 21, between "duties" and the semicolon, insert ",
 provided the judge served as an active judge for at least four terms of office".
      (3)iiOn page 1, line 22, strike "and" and substitute "or".
      Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
      HB 332, as amended, was passed to engrossment. (Flynn and Kuempel
 recorded voting no.)
                      CSHB 300 ON SECOND READING
                            (by Murr and Lang)
      CSHB 300, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to inquest summary reports
 and the preservation of evidence collected in the course of an inquest.
      CSHBi300 was passed to engrossment.
                        HB 642 ON SECOND READING
                                 (by Raney)
      HB 642, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to authorizing an optional
 county fee on vehicle registration in certain counties to be used for transportation
 projects.
      A record vote was requested by Representative Stickland.
      HBi642 was passed to engrossment by (Record 865): 104 Yeas, 41 Nays, 1
 Present, not voting.
       Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Beckley; Bell,
 K.; Bernal; Blanco; Bowers; Bucy; Button; Calanni; Canales; Capriglione;
 Clardy; Cole; Coleman; Collier; Cortez; Craddick; Darby; Davis, S.; Davis, Y.;
 Deshotel; Dominguez; Dutton; Farrar; Fierro; Flynn; Frullo; Geren; Goldman;
 González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen; Gutierrez; Harless;
 Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa; Howard; Huberty; Hunter; Israel; Johnson, J.D.;
 Johnson, J.E.; Kacal; King, K.; King, P.; King, T.; Lambert; Larson; Leman;
 Longoria; Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Martinez; Martinez Fischer; Meyer; Meza;
 Minjarez; Moody; Morales; Morrison; Muñoz; Murphy; Neave; Nevárez; Ortega;
 Pacheco; Parker; Perez; Ramos; Raney; Raymond; Reynolds; Rodriguez;
 Romero; Rose; Rosenthal; Sanford; Sheffield; Sherman; Shine; Smithee;
 Stephenson; Talarico; Thierry; Thompson, E.; Thompson, S.; Turner, C.; Turner,
 J.; VanDeaver; Vo; Walle; Wray; Wu; Zerwas; Zwiener.
2632            86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

      Nays — Bell, C.; Biedermann; Bohac; Bonnen; Buckley; Burns; Burrows;
 Cain; Cyrier; Dean; Frank; Harris; Hefner; Holland; Klick; Krause; Kuempel;
 Landgraf; Leach; Metcalf; Middleton; Miller; Murr; Noble; Oliverson; Paddie;
 Patterson; Paul; Phelan; Price; Schaefer; Shaheen; Smith; Springer; Stickland;
 Stucky; Swanson; Tinderholt; White; Wilson; Zedler.
       Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker(C).
       Absent, Excused — Gervin-Hawkins; Johnson, E.
       Absent — Lang; Toth.
                           STATEMENTS OF VOTE
       When Record No. 865 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                           P. King
       When Record No. 865 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                           Sanford
      When Record No. 865 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted no.
                                                                              Toth
       When Record No. 865 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                             Wray
                       REMARKS ORDERED PRINTED
     Representative Israel moved to print remarks between Representative Paddie
 and Representative Israel on CSHBi2050.
       The motion prevailed.
                     CSHB 2737 ON SECOND READING
                  (by Wu, Dutton, White, Leach, Frank, et al.)
      CSHB 2737, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to judicial guidance related
 to child protective services cases and juvenile cases.
 Amendment No. 1
       Representative Wu offered the following amendment to CSHBi2737:
      Amend CSHBi2737 (house committee report) on page 1, line 8, between
 "supreme court" and "annually", by inserting ", in conjunction with the Supreme
 Court of Texas Permanent Judicial Commission for Children, Youth and
 Families,".
       Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                            2633

 Amendment No. 2
      Representative White offered the following amendment to CSHBi2737:
       Amend CSHBi2737 (house committee report) as follows:
       (1)iiOn page 1, line 24, strike "and".
       (2)iiOn page 2, line 1, between "(D)" and "commitment", insert the
 following:
 a child ’s appearance before a court in a judicial proceeding, including the use of a
 restraint on the child and the clothing worn by the child during the proceeding;
 and
                (E)
      Amendment No. 2 was adopted.
      CSHB 2737, as amended, was passed to engrossment.
                       CSHB 788 ON SECOND READING
                           (by S. Davis and White)
      CSHB 788, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to a study on the
 assessments used by the Board of Pardons and Paroles to make parole decisions.
      CSHBi788 was passed to engrossment.
                       CSHB 918 ON SECOND READING
                               (by White, et al.)
      CSHB 918, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to providing discharged or
 released inmates with certain documents, including documents to assist the
 inmate in obtaining employment.
      CSHBi918 was passed to engrossment.
                        HB 1059 ON SECOND READING
                                  (by Lucio)
      HB 1059, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to a biennial report on
 stormwater infrastructure in this state.
      HBi1059 was passed to engrossment.
                      CSHB 963 ON SECOND READING
                 (by C. Bell, Bernal, Howard, and J.D. Johnson)
      CSHB 963, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to a review by the State
 Board of Education of the essential knowledge and skills of the career and
 technology and technology applications curriculums.
      CSHBi963 was passed to engrossment.
                      CSHB 1273 ON SECOND READING
                                 (by Zedler)
      CSHB 1273, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to denial of payment for
 preauthorized health care services.
2634             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

 Amendment No. 1
       Representative Zedler offered the following amendment to CSHBi1273:
      Amend CSHBi1273 (house committee report) as follows:
      (1)iiOn page 1, line 8, between "HEALTH CARE" and "SERVICES", insert
 "OR DENTAL CARE".
      (2)iiOn page 1, line 12, between "HEALTH CARE" and "SERVICES",
 insert "OR DENTAL CARE".
      (3)iiStrike "health care services" each place the phrase appears and substitute
 "health care or dental care services" (page 1, lines 13 and 18-20).
      (4)iiStrike "physician or health care provider" each place the phrase appears
 and substitute "physician, dentist, or health care provider" (page 1, lines 14,
 15iand 16, 17 and 18, and 22 and page 2, line 8).
       Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
 Amendment No. 2
       Representative Zedler offered the following amendment to CSHBi1273:
       Amend CSHBi1273 (house committee report) as follows:
       (1)iiOn page 1, between lines 4 and 5, insert the following appropriately
 numbered SECTION:
       SECTIONi____.iiSection 843.348, Insurance Code, is amended by adding
 Subsection (g-1) to read as follows:
       (g-1)iiNothing in Subsection (g) may be construed to:
            (1)iiauthorize a provider to provide health care services outside of the
 scope of the provider ’s practice as defined by applicable state law; or
            (2)iirequire the health maintenance organization to pay for a health care
 service provided outside of the scope of a provider ’s practice as defined by
 applicable state law.
       (2)iiOn page 1, lines 13-14, strike "to be performed by a physician or health
 care provider".
       (3)iiOn page 2, between lines 16 and 17, insert the following:
       (d)iiNothing in Subsection (a) may be construed to:
            (1)iiauthorize a health care provider to provide health care services
 outside of the scope of the health care provider ’s practice as defined by applicable
 state law; or
            (2)iirequire the health benefit plan issuer to pay for a health care service
 provided outside of the scope of a health care provider ’s practice as defined by
 applicable state law.
       (4)iiAdd the following appropriately numbered SECTION to the bill:
       SECTIONi____.iiSection 1301.135, Insurance Code, is amended by adding
 Subsection (f-1) to read as follows:
       (f-1)iiNothing in Subsection (f) may be construed to:
            (1)iiauthorize a health care provider to provide medical care or health
 care services outside of the scope of the health care provider ’s practice as defined
 by applicable state law; or
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                          2635

           (2)iirequire the insurer to pay for a medical care or health care service
 provided outside of the scope of a health care provider s’ practice as defined by
 applicable state law.
      (5)iiRenumber the SECTIONS of the bill accordingly.
      Amendment No. 2 was adopted.
      CSHB 1273, as amended, was passed to engrossment.
                       HB 3852 ON SECOND READING
                                (by Longoria)
      HB 3852, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to purchasing and contracting
 by governmental entities; authorizing fees.
      Representative Longoria moved to postpone consideration of HBi3852iuntil
 10ia.m. Tuesday, May 7.
      The motion prevailed.
                      CSHB 1353 ON SECOND READING
                               (by Oliverson)
      CSHB 1353, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to liability of volunteer
 health care providers and health care institutions for care, assistance, or advice
 provided in relation to a disaster.
    Representative Oliverson moved to postpone consideration of
 CSHBi1353iuntil 10ia.m. Friday, May 3.
      The motion prevailed.
                     CSHB 1362 ON SECOND READING
                  (by Wu, Frank, Hinojosa, Miller, and Walle)
      CSHB 1362, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the caseloads of child
 protective services caseworkers.
      CSHBi1362 was passed to engrossment.
                      CSHB 1532 ON SECOND READING
                                 (by Meyer)
      CSHB 1532, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the regulation of certain
 health organizations certified by the Texas Medical Board; providing an
 administrative penalty; authorizing a fee.
      A record vote was requested by Representative Beckley.
      CSHBi1532 was passed to engrossment by (Record 866): 144 Yeas, 2 Nays,
 1 Present, not voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anchia; Anderson; Ashby; Bailes; Bell, C.; Bell, K.;
 Bernal; Blanco; Bohac; Bonnen; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy; Burns; Burrows;
 Button; Cain; Calanni; Canales; Capriglione; Clardy; Cole; Coleman; Collier;
 Cortez; Craddick; Cyrier; Darby; Davis, S.; Davis, Y.; Dean; Deshotel;
 Dominguez; Dutton; Farrar; Fierro; Flynn; Frank; Frullo; Geren; Goldman;
 González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen; Gutierrez; Harless;
2636             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

 Harris; Hefner; Hernandez; Hinojosa; Holland; Howard; Huberty; Hunter; Israel;
 Johnson, J.D.; Johnson, J.E.; Kacal; King, K.; King, P.; King, T.; Klick; Krause;
 Kuempel; Lambert; Landgraf; Lang; Larson; Leach; Leman; Longoria; Lopez;
 Lozano; Lucio; Martinez; Martinez Fischer; Metcalf; Meyer; Meza; Middleton;
 Miller; Minjarez; Moody; Morales; Morrison; Muñoz; Murphy; Murr; Neave;
 Nevárez; Noble; Oliverson; Ortega; Pacheco; Paddie; Parker; Patterson; Paul;
 Perez; Phelan; Price; Ramos; Raney; Raymond; Reynolds; Rodriguez; Romero;
 Rose; Rosenthal; Sanford; Schaefer; Shaheen; Sheffield; Sherman; Shine; Smith;
 Smithee; Springer; Stephenson; Stickland; Stucky; Swanson; Talarico; Thierry;
 Thompson, E.; Thompson, S.; Tinderholt; Toth; Turner, C.; Turner, J.;
 VanDeaver; Vo; Walle; White; Wilson; Wray; Wu; Zedler; Zerwas; Zwiener.
       Nays — Beckley; Biedermann.
       Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker(C).
       Absent, Excused — Gervin-Hawkins; Johnson, E.
       Absent — Herrero.
                            STATEMENT OF VOTE
       When Record No. 866 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                       Tinderholt
                      CSHB 3041 ON SECOND READING
                               (by C. Turner)
      CSHB 3041, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the renewal of a
 preauthorization for a medical or health care service.
 Amendment No. 1
       Representative C. Turner offered the following amendment to CSHBi3041:
     Amend CSHBi3041 (house committee report) as follows:
     (1)iiOn page 3, line 9, following the underlined semicolon, add "and".
     (2)iiOn page 3, line 11, strike the underlined semicolon and substitute an
 underlined period.
     (3)iiOn page 3, strike lines 12-15.
       Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
       A record vote was requested by Representative Schaefer.
     CSHB 3041, as amended, was passed to engrossment by (Record 867): 79
 Yeas, 58 Nays, 1 Present, not voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Anchia; Ashby; Bailes; Beckley; Bell, K.; Bernal; Blanco;
 Bowers; Bucy; Burrows; Button; Calanni; Canales; Clardy; Cole; Coleman;
 Collier; Cortez; Davis, S.; Davis, Y.; Deshotel; Dominguez; Dutton; Farrar;
 Fierro; Geren; González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin; Guerra; Guillen; Gutierrez;
 Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa; Howard; Israel; Johnson, J.D.; Johnson, J.E.;
 King, T.; Lambert; Larson; Leach; Longoria; Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Martinez;
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                       2637

 Meza; Minjarez; Morales; Muñoz; Neave; Nevárez; Ortega; Pacheco; Paddie;
 Perez; Ramos; Raney; Raymond; Reynolds; Rodriguez; Romero; Rosenthal;
 Sheffield; Sherman; Shine; Talarico; Thierry; Toth; Turner, C.; Turner, J.; Vo;
 Walle; Wu; Zerwas; Zwiener.
      Nays — Allison; Anderson; Biedermann; Bohac; Bonnen; Buckley; Burns;
 Cain; Capriglione; Craddick; Cyrier; Darby; Dean; Frank; Frullo; Goldman;
 Harless; Harris; Hefner; Holland; Huberty; Hunter; King, P.; Klick; Krause;
 Kuempel; Landgraf; Lang; Leman; Metcalf; Meyer; Middleton; Miller; Morrison;
 Murphy; Murr; Noble; Oliverson; Parker; Patterson; Paul; Phelan; Price; Sanford;
 Schaefer; Shaheen; Smith; Smithee; Springer; Stickland; Stucky; Swanson;
 Thompson, E.; Tinderholt; VanDeaver; White; Wray; Zedler.
        Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker(C).
        Absent, Excused — Gervin-Hawkins; Johnson, E.
     Absent — Bell, C.; Flynn; Kacal; King, K.; Martinez Fischer; Moody; Rose;
 Stephenson; Thompson, S.; Wilson.
                            STATEMENTS OF VOTE
      When Record No. 867 was taken, my vote failed to register. I would have
 voted no.
                                                                           Flynn
        When Record No. 867 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                           Frullo
      When Record No. 867 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted yes.
                                                                           Kacal
        When Record No. 867 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                           Leach
      When Record No. 867 was taken, my vote failed to register. I would have
 voted yes.
                                                                Martinez Fischer
        When Record No. 867 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                            Murr
        When Record No. 867 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                       Oliverson
2638               86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

         When Record No. 867 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                             Paddie
      When Record No. 867 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted no.
                                                                            Wilson
         When Record No. 867 was taken, I was shown voting no. I intended to vote
 yes.
                                                                               Wray
                          HB 1649 ON SECOND READING
                                   (by Kuempel)
       HB 1649, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to vehicle eligibility for the
 light-duty motor vehicle purchase or lease incentive program.
 Amendment No. 1
         Representative Springer offered the following amendment to HBi1649:
      Amend HBi1649 (house committee report) as follows:
      (1)iiOn page 1, strike lines 5 and 6 and substitute the following:
      SECTIONi1.iiSection 386.154, Health and Safety Code, is amended by
 amending Subsection (d) and adding Subsection (f) to read as follows:
      (2)iiOn page 2, between lines 3 and 4, insert the following:
      (f)iiA person that receives the incentive described by Subsection (d) shall
 remit $750 to the comptroller to deposit to the credit of the state highway fund.
         Amendment No. 1 was adopted.
 Amendment No. 2
         Representative Murphy offered the following amendment to HBi1649:
         Amend HBi1649 (house committee report) as follows:
         (1)iiOn page 1, line 23, strike "and" and substitute "[and]".
         (2)iiOn page 2, line 3, between "resale" and the period, insert:
 ; and
          (7)iiis not a motor-assisted scooter, pocket bike, or minimotorbike as
 those terms are defined by Section 551.351, Transportation Code
         Amendment No. 2 was adopted.
         A record vote was requested by Representative Stickland.
     HB 1649, as amended, was passed to engrossment by (Record 868): 99
 Yeas, 37 Nays, 1 Present, not voting.
      Yeas — Allen; Allison; Anderson; Bailes; Beckley; Bell, K.; Bernal;
 Blanco; Bowers; Buckley; Bucy; Burns; Burrows; Button; Calanni; Canales;
 Cole; Coleman; Collier; Cortez; Darby; Davis, S.; Davis, Y.; Dean; Dutton;
 Farrar; Fierro; Flynn; Frullo; Geren; González, J.; González, M.; Goodwin;
 Guerra; Guillen; Gutierrez; Harless; Hernandez; Herrero; Hinojosa; Howard;
Wednesday, May 1, 2019        HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                        2639

 Huberty; Hunter; Israel; Johnson, J.D.; Johnson, J.E.; Kacal; King, K.; Kuempel;
 Lambert; Landgraf; Larson; Leach; Longoria; Lopez; Lozano; Lucio; Martinez;
 Martinez Fischer; Meyer; Meza; Miller; Minjarez; Moody; Morales; Morrison;
 Muñoz; Murphy; Neave; Ortega; Pacheco; Paddie; Phelan; Price; Ramos; Raney;
 Raymond; Reynolds; Rodriguez; Romero; Rose; Rosenthal; Sheffield; Sherman;
 Shine; Smith; Springer; Stephenson; Stucky; Talarico; Thierry; Thompson, E.;
 Toth; Turner, C.; Turner, J.; VanDeaver; Vo; Walle; Wu.
      Nays — Anchia; Ashby; Bohac; Bonnen; Cain; Capriglione; Clardy;
 Craddick; Cyrier; Dominguez; Frank; Goldman; Harris; Hefner; Holland; King,
 P.; Klick; Krause; Lang; Leman; Metcalf; Middleton; Murr; Noble; Oliverson;
 Parker; Patterson; Paul; Sanford; Shaheen; Smithee; Stickland; Swanson;
 Tinderholt; White; Wilson; Zedler.
       Present, not voting — Mr. Speaker(C).
       Absent, Excused — Gervin-Hawkins; Johnson, E.
     Absent — Bell, C.; Biedermann; Deshotel; King, T.; Nevárez; Perez;
 Schaefer; Thompson, S.; Wray; Zerwas; Zwiener.
                           STATEMENTS OF VOTE
       When Record No. 868 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                           Burns
       When Record No. 868 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                           Flynn
      When Record No. 868 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted yes.
                                                                         T. King
       When Record No. 868 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                        Landgraf
       When Record No. 868 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                           Leach
       When Record No. 868 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                          Meyer
       When Record No. 868 was taken, I was shown voting yes. I intended to vote
 no.
                                                                            Toth
2640            86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

      When Record No. 868 was taken, I was in the house but away from my
 desk. I would have voted yes.
                                                                          Zwiener
                       HB 1568 ON SECOND READING
                               (by Hernandez)
       HB 1568, A bill to be entitled An Act relating to the authority of certain
 municipal employees to request the removal and storage of certain abandoned or
 illegally parked or operated vehicles.
       HBi1568 was passed to engrossment.
                COMMITTEE MEETING ANNOUNCEMENT
       The following committee meeting was announced:
      Juvenile Justice and Family Issues, scheduled to meet upon final
 adjournment or during bill referral, if permission granted, today, will convene at
 7ip.m.iin the posted location.
                       MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE
      A message from the senate was received at this time (see the addendum to
 the daily journal, Messages from the Senate, Message No. 2).
                COMMITTEE MEETING ANNOUNCEMENT
       The following committee meeting was announced:
      State Affairs, scheduled to reconvene today upon adjournment or during bill
 referral, if permission granted, will convene at 7:30 p.m. in the posted location.
                  FIVE-DAY POSTING RULE SUSPENDED
      Representative Phelan moved to suspend the five-day posting rule to allow
 the Committee on Transportation to consider HBi4762 at 2 p.m. or upon
 adjournment or during bill referral, if permission granted, today in E2.030.
       The motion prevailed.
            COMMITTEES GRANTED PERMISSION TO MEET
      Representative Canales moved that the house grant permission for all
 committees and subcommittees to meet while the house is in session, during bill
 referral today, pursuant to their committee postings or recess motions.
       Permission to meet was granted.
                COMMITTEE MEETING ANNOUNCEMENTS
       The following committee meetings were announced:
      Business and Industry, upon final adjournment or during bill referral, if
 permission granted, today, 1W.14, for a formal meeting, to consider pending
 business.
     Resolutions Calendars, upon final adjournment or during bill referral, if
 permission granted, today, 1W.14, for a formal meeting, to consider a calendar.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019         HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                           2641

                      PROVIDING FOR ADJOURNMENT
      At 6:37 p.m., Representative Goodwin moved that, at the conclusion of the
 reading of bills and resolutions on first reading and referral to committees, the
 house adjourn until 10 a.m. tomorrow in memory of Dr. Michael James
 Babineaux of Austin.
      The motion prevailed.
         BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS ON FIRST READING
                 AND REFERRAL TO COMMITTEES
                   CORRECTIONS IN REFERRAL
      Bills and joint resolutions were at this time laid before the house, read first
 time, and referred to committees. Pursuant to Rule 1, Section 4, of the House
 Rules, the chair at this time corrected the referral of measures to committees. (See
 the addendum to the daily journal, Referred to Committees, List No. 2.)
      (K. Bell in the chair)
                                  ADJOURNMENT
       In accordance with a previous motion, the house, at 6:43 p.m., adjourned
 until 10 a.m. tomorrow.


                          AAAAAADDENDUMAAAAA

                         REFERRED TO COMMITTEES
      The following bills and joint resolutions were today laid before the house,
 read first time, and referred to committees, and the following resolutions were
 today laid before the house and referred to committees. If indicated, the chair
 today corrected the referral of the following measures:
 List No. 1
      SB 1038 to Land and Resource Management.
      SB 1720 to County Affairs.
      SB 1793 to State Affairs.
      SB 1794 to Judiciary and Civil Jurisprudence.
      SB 1856 to Ways and Means.
      SB 1879 to Homeland Security and Public Safety.
      SB 1959 to Transportation.
      SB 2135 to Public Education.
      SB 2505 to County Affairs.
      SB 2517 to Land and Resource Management.
      SB 2527 to Land and Resource Management.
2642             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

 List No. 2
       SB 11 to Public Education.
       SB 58 to Ways and Means.
       SB 437 to Insurance.
       SB 446 to State Affairs.
       SB 1029 to Ways and Means.
       SB 1056 to Public Health.
       SB 1129 to Urban Affairs.
       SB 1336 to Business and Industry.
       SB 1386 to Natural Resources.
       SB 1500 to Judiciary and Civil Jurisprudence.
       SB 1525 to Ways and Means.
       SB 1584 to Insurance.
       SB 1742 to Insurance.
       SB 1755 to Judiciary and Civil Jurisprudence.
       SB 1803 to Criminal Jurisprudence.
       SB 1805 to Agriculture and Livestock.
       SB 1824 to Ways and Means.
       SB 1845 to Business and Industry.
       SB 1918 to Urban Affairs.
       SB 1928 to Judiciary and Civil Jurisprudence.
       SB 1940 to Insurance.
       SB 2040 to Human Services.
       SB 2156 to Transportation.
       SB 2245 to County Affairs.
       SB 2270 to Pensions, Investments, and Financial Services.
       SB 2449 to Land and Resource Management.
       SB 2469 to Land and Resource Management.
       SB 2481 to Land and Resource Management.
       SB 2521 to Land and Resource Management.
       SB 2524 to Land and Resource Management.
       SB 2525 to Land and Resource Management.
       SB 2526 to Land and Resource Management.
       SB 2534 to Land and Resource Management.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019        HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                        2643

      Pursuant to Rule 1, Section 4, of the House Rules, the chair corrects the
 referral of the following bills and resolutions:
     SB 1207 to Insurance.
                         SIGNED BY THE SPEAKER
     The following bills and resolutions were today signed in the presence of the
 house by the speaker:
 Senate List No. 15
     SBi325, SBi872
                      MESSAGES FROM THE SENATE
     The following messages from the senate were today received by the house:
 Message No. 1
                       MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE
                           SENATE CHAMBER
                              Austin, Texas
                          Wednesday, May 1, 2019
 The Honorable Speaker of the House
 House Chamber
 Austin, Texas
 Mr. Speaker:
 I am directed by the senate to inform the house that the senate has taken the
 following action:
 THE SENATE HAS PASSED THE FOLLOWING MEASURES:
 HB 374                      Allen                    SPONSOR: Miles
 Relating to meetings or visits between a defendant on community supervision
 and a supervision officer.
 (Committee Substitute)
 HB 1311                     Thompson, Senfronia      SPONSOR: Watson
 Relating to the continuation and functions of the Texas Board of Professional
 Geoscientists.
 HB 1595                     Paddie                   SPONSOR: Hughes
 Relating to the deployment of advanced metering and meter information
 networks in certain areas outside of ERCOT.
 HCR 163                     Kacal                    SPONSOR: Birdwell
 Commemorating the 30th anniversary of the Allergan company ’s Waco
 Manufacturing Facility.
 SB 711                      Hinojosa
 Relating to allowing safety recall information to be included in a vehicle
 inspection report.
 SB 958                      Johnson
2644             86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

 Relating to a right of first refusal applicable to the sale of housing developments
 that have received certain financial assistance administered by the Texas
 Department of Housing and Community Affairs.
 SB 1130                        West
 Relating to the establishment of a task force on father engagement in this state.
 SB 1133                        Bettencourt
 Relating to prohibiting public schools from owning, leasing, or having a business
 interest in certain entities and real property associated with those entities.
 SB 1331                        Hinojosa
 Relating to the regulation of individuals and entities that conduct forensic
 analyses, examinations, and tests.
 SB 1783                        Zaffirini
 Relating to guardianships, alternatives to guardianship, and supports and services
 for incapacitated persons.
 SB 2143                        Flores
 Relating to the authority of the Kickapoo Traditional Tribe of Texas to
 commission peace officers.
 Respectfully,
 Patsy Spaw
 Secretary of the Senate
 Message No. 2
                           MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE
                               SENATE CHAMBER
                                   Austin, Texas
                             Wednesday, May 1, 2019 - 2
 The Honorable Speaker of the House
 House Chamber
 Austin, Texas
 Mr. Speaker:
 I am directed by the senate to inform the house that the senate has taken the
 following action:
 THE SENATE HAS PASSED THE FOLLOWING MEASURES:
 HB 723                       Larson                        SPONSOR: Perry
 Relating to a requirement that the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality
 obtain or develop updated water availability models for certain river basins.
 (Committee Substitute)
 SB 535                       Campbell
 Relating to the carrying of a handgun by a license holder on the premises of
 certain places of religious worship.
 SB 708                       Zaffirini
 Relating to collection and use of child safety data for licensed day-care centers.
Wednesday, May 1, 2019        HOUSE JOURNAL — 56th Day                         2645

 SB 1105                      Kolkhorst
 Relating to the administration and operation of Medicaid, including Medicaid
 managed care.
 SB 1180                      Menéndez
 Relating to reporting regarding veterans treatment court programs.
 SB 1818                      Zaffirini
 Relating to a competitive and integrated employment initiative for certain
 Medicaid recipients.
 SB 1991                      Buckingham
 Relating to claims and overpayment recoupment processes imposed on health
 care providers under Medicaid.
 SB 2272                      Nichols
 Relating to the procedure for amending or revoking certificates of public
 convenience and necessity issued to certain water utilities.
 SB 2293                      Fallon
 Relating to the applicability of certain laws to open-enrollment charter schools.
 SB 2318                      Campbell
 Relating to the authority of a county to require a person to obtain a building
 permit from the county for certain portable structures.
 SCR 59                       Birdwell
 Urging the president to designate a state funeral for the last surviving Medal of
 Honor recipient from World War II.
 Respectfully,
 Patsy Spaw
 Secretary of the Senate



                           AAAAAAPPENDIXAAAAA

                    STANDING COMMITTEE REPORTS
      Favorable reports have been filed by committees as follows:
      April 30
      Business and Industry - HBi733, HBi2302
      Corrections - HBi4104
     County Affairs - HBi1356, HBi2467, HBi3001, HBi4075, HBi4117,
 HBi4468, HBi4693, HBi4752, SBi790
     Criminal Jurisprudence - HBi37, HBi442, HBi760, HBi934, HBi1445,
 HBi2342, HBi2360, HBi2361, HBi2518, HBi2524, HBi2894, HBi2906,
 HBi3091, HBi3177, HBi3490, HBi3849, HBi4202, HJRi62
      Elections - HBi2898, HBi3964, HBi4130
2646            86th LEGISLATURE — REGULAR SESSION

       Homeland Security and Public Safety - HBi838, HBi2478
       House Administration - HBi3040
     Human Services - HBi342, HBi475, HBi1647, HBi2062, HBi2368,
 HBi2392, HBi2409, HBi2866, HBi3170, HBi3541, HBi3803, HBi3991,
 HBi4543
       Insurance - HBi670, HBi2601, HBi2893, HBi3064, HBi3984
       International Relations and Economic Development - HBi2279 (corrected)
     Judiciary and Civil Jurisprudence - HBi1359, HBi1737, HBi2247,
 HBi2782, HBi3081, HBi3305, HBi4085, HBi4441, HBi4633, HBi4716, SBi41,
 SBi230, SBi416, SBi489, SBi667
     Public Education - HBi307, HBi662, HBi1416, HBi2609, HBi2621,
 HBi3000, HBi3008, HBi3026, HBi3155, HBi3452, HBi3683, HBi3861,
 HBi4131, HBi4324, HBi4414
     Public Health - HBi562, HBi1782, HBi2057, HBi2108, HBi2250,
 HBi2410, HBi2618, HBi2783, HBi3017, HBi3284, HBi3285, HBi3304,
 HBi3538, HBi3703, HBi4097, HBi4455, SBi932, SBi1238, SBi1283, SBi2200
       State Affairs - HBi318, HBi4132, SBi494, SBi944, SBi988, SBi1358
       Transportation - HBi737, HBi1951
       Urban Affairs - HBi4744
     Ways and Means - HBi948, HBi983, HBi1201, HBi2257, HBi2770,
 HBi2993, HBi3356, HBi3823, HBi3844, HBi4152, HBi4158, HBi4228,
 HBi4367, HJRi139

                                 ENGROSSED
     April 30 - HBi63, HBi70, HBi808, HBi823, HBi914, HBi985, HBi1111,
 HBi1139, HBi1307, HBi1542, HBi1543, HBi1619, HBi1806, HBi1865,
 HBi2100, HBi2169, HBi2188, HBi2282, HBi2387, HBi2439, HBi2611,
 HBi2623, HBi2668, HBi2730, HBi2845, HBi2899, HBi3006, HBi3106,
 HBi3143, HBi3224, HBi3842, HBi4429

                                  ENROLLED
       April 30 - HCRi155

            RECOMMENDATIONS FILED WITH THE SPEAKER
     April 30 - HBi4662, HBi4667, HBi4668, HBi4669, HBi4670, HBi4671,
 HBi4672, HBi4673, HBi4674, HBi4675, HBi4676, HBi4677, HBi4678,
 HBi4679, HBi4685, HBi4686, HBi4687, HBi4688
