November 3, 2026 Election Law Calendar 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 Skip to Main Content 

 THE TEXAS SECRETARY OF STATE WILL BE CLOSED TODAY AT 3:00 P.M. DUE TO INCLEMENT WEATHER . CLOSURE DETAILS 
 -->

 THE TEXAS SECRETARY OF STATE WILL BE CLOSED THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2ND DUE TO INCLEMENT WEATHER. CLOSURE DETAILS 
 -->

 OUR AGENCY IS CURRENTLY EXPERIENCING ISSUES WITH OUR PHONE SYSTEM. WE APOLOGIZE FOR THE INCONVENIENCE AS WE WORK TO RESOLVE THE ISSUES. 
 -->

 Technical Notice: Various applications including SOSDirect and SOSUpload are experiencing intermittent issues and are actively being addressed. We apologize for the inconvenience. 
 -->

 Notice: Various applications including SOSDirect and SOSUpload are experiencing technical difficulties and are actively being addressed. We apologize for the inconvenience. 
 -->

 DUE TO INCLEMENT WEATHER, OUR OFFICE WILL OPEN AT NOON ON TUESDAY, JANUARY 16. ONLINE SERVICES REMAIN AVAILABLE 24/7. 
 -->

 DUE TO INCLEMENT WEATHER, OUR OFFICE WILL OPEN AT 10:00 AM ON WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17. ONLINE SERVICES REMAIN AVAILABLE 24/7. 
 -->

 Maintenance Notice: Due to the worldwide Microsoft outage, several SOS systems are down. We are working diligently to get them back up and running. 
 -->

 THE TEXAS SECRETARY OF STATE WILL BE CLOSED TUESDAY, JANUARY 21, DUE TO INCLEMENT WEATHER. 
 -->

 Technical Notice: We are experiencing technical networking issues and are currently working on a resolution. 
-->

 OUR AGENCY IS CURRENTLY EXPERIENCING ISSUES WITH OUR PHONE SYSTEM. WE APOLOGIZE FOR THE INCONVENIENCE AS WE WORK TO RESOLVE THE ISSUES. 
 -->

 THE OFFICE OF TEXAS SECRETARY OF STATE WILL BE CLOSED TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, DUE TO INCLEMENT WEATHER. ONLINE SERVICES REMAIN AVAILABLE 24/7. 
 -->

 IN-PERSON SERVICES FOR THE OFFICE OF THE TEXAS SECRETARY OF STATE HAVE MOVED TO 400 W. 15TH STREET. PARKING DETAILS AND MORE INFORMATION 

 Candidates seeking to file applications outside of lobby hours should contact the Elections Division at 512-463-5650. 
 -->

 
 
 Media |

 Site Map |

 Help |

 Contact |

 Website Survey |

 En Espa ol 

 Customer Survey 
-->
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Search for this: 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 Texas Secretary of State
--> 
 
 

 
 
 Menu 
 
 
 SOS Home 
 -->
 
 About SOS 
 
 About the Office 

 Secretary of State Biography 

 Deputy Secretary of State Biography 

 Press Releases 

 History of the Office 

 Constitutional Duties 

 Employment Opportunities 

 SOS Modernization Program 

 Procurement Opportunities 

 Publications 

 
 

 
 Elections & Voting 
 
 VoteTexas.gov - Voter Information 

 Voter Registration Resources 

 Conducting Elections 

 Candidate Information 

 Officials and Officeholders 

 Election Results 

 Audit Program 

 Training and Educational Resources 

 Election Funds Management 

 Forms, Resources and Legal Library 

 Voting Systems 

 Frequently Asked Questions (FAQS) 

 
 

 
 Business Services 
 
 SOSDirect: Business Searches & Formations 

 Business Forms 

 Filing Options 

 Fee Schedule 

 Copies and Certificates 

 Registered Agents 

 Uniform Commercial Code 

 Trademarks 

 Service of Process 

 Texas Business Law 

 Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) 

 
 

 
 Notary & Apostilles 
 
 
 Notary Public 

 Apostilles/Authentication of Documents 

 Notary Complaints 

 Frequently Asked Questions (FAQS) 

 
 

 
 Rules & Meetings
 
 
 
 Texas Register 

 Texas Administrative Code 

 Open Meetings 

 Subscription Services 

 Rule Transfers and Agency Name Changes 

 Liaison General Info 

 Liaison Login 

 Other Resources 

 Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) 

 
 

 
 International Relations 
 
 International Affairs 

 Foreign Consulates in Texas 

 Texas Border & Mexican Affairs 

 Border Governor's Conference 

 Work Groups & Reports 

 Border Commerce Coordinator Legislative Reports 
 -->
 Notario Publico? 

 Apostilles/Authentication of Documents 

 Links of Interest 

 
 

 
 Forms & Other Services 
 
 Forms 

 Legislative Bills 

 NEW : Data Brokers 

 Credit Services Organizations 

 State Seal of Texas 

 Athlete Agents 

 Health Spas 

 FAQs For Other Services 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 November 3, 2026 Election Law Calendar

 

 The uniform election date in November of even-numbered years, by statute, is the general election date for federal, state, and county officers. Additionally, many local political subdivisions have their regular general election for members of their governing bodies in November of even-numbered years, or they may order special elections for this date to vote on propositions or to fill vacancies. Therefore, this calendar is required to meet the needs of many different governmental bodies. If there are questions about the applicability of something in this calendar to your specific election, do not hesitate to call the Elections Division of the Office of the Texas Secretary of State at 1-800-252-VOTE (8683).

 Section 2.025 of the Texas Election Code requires the Secretary of State to set the runoff date for all runoff elections resulting from an election held on a uniform election date. Pursuant to Section 2.025, the Secretary of State has designated Saturday, December 12, 2026 as the election date for all runoff elections resulting from elections held by local political subdivisions on the November 3, 2026 Uniform Election Date.

 NOTE : Updates to the calendar will be made to the web version of this calendar. The web version is located on the Secretary of State s website on the applicable Conducting Elections page.

 Collapse All | Expand All 
 

 1. Campaign Information 

 
 
 Under Title 15 of the Texas Election Code, candidates running for an office must file campaign contribution and expenditure reports. For further information and all questions about such disclosure filings, campaign finance, and political advertising, please contact the Texas Ethics Commission at 201 E. 14th, 10th Floor, Austin, Texas 78701; or call them at 512-463-5800. Candidates filing for federal offices should contact the Federal Election Commission toll-free at 1-800-424-9530 or visit their website.

 2. Statutory and Administrative Code References 

 
 
 Unless otherwise indicated, all references are to the Texas Election Code. The county election officer is either the county clerk, the county elections administrator, or the county tax assessor-collector, depending on the actions of the county commissioners court. (Secs. 31.031, 31.071, 31.091). The county voter registrar is either the county clerk, the county elections administrator, or the county tax assessor- collector, depending on the actions of the county commissioners court. (Secs. 12.001, 12.031, 31.031, 31.071).

 References to the Texas Administrative Code are cited to the relevant section of the T.A.C. 

 3. Web Posting Requirements

 
 
 P lease see our Web Posting Advisory, Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2019-19 , and our Web Posting Chart (PDF) for more details on web posting requirements. A summary of the requirements is below.

 As of January 1, 2020, each county shall maintain a website. (Sec. 26.16(a), Tax Code).

 All political subdivisions with the authority to tax that maintain a website any time after January 1, 2019, must post the following items on the entity s Internet website:

 
 The political subdivision s contact information, including a mailing address, telephone number, and e-mail address;

 Each elected officer of the political subdivision;

 The date and location of the next election for officers of the political subdivision;

 The requirements and deadline for filing for candidacy of each elected office of the political subdivision which shall be continuously posted or at least one year before the election day for the office;

 Each notice of a meeting of the political subdivision s governing body under Subchapter C, Chapter 551 of the Government Code; and

 Each record of a meeting of the political subdivision s governing body under Section 551.021 of the Government Code. (Sec. 2051.201, Government Code).

 
 Our office recommends consulting with your political subdivision s local counsel regarding the particular posting requirements under Subdivisions (5) and (6) referenced above. Please note, the requirements for posting notice of meetings and record of meetings of the political subdivision s governing body do not apply to:

 
 A county with a population of less than 10,000;

 A municipality with a population of less than 5,000 located in a county with a population of less than 25,000; or

 A school district with a population of less than 5,000 in the district s boundaries and located in a county with a population of less than 25,000.

 
 NOTE :Section 2051.202 of the Government Code requires a special purpose district with certain financial and population characteristics to post specific information on an Internet website. Special purpose district excludes from the term a municipality, county, junior college district, independent school district, groundwater conservation district, river authority, or political subdivision with statewide jurisdiction. (Sec. 2051.202, Government Code).

 NOTE: During the 21 days before the election, a debt obligation order under Section 3.009 must be posted on the political subdivision s Internet website, prominently and together with the notice of the election, a copy of the sample ballot, and the contents of the proposition, if the political subdivision maintains an Internet website. Please see our sample form that the political subdivision may use when posting the online information required as referenced above. See Note 8 for more information on notice requirements.

 N OTE :Section 63.0015 requires election officers to post on the county clerk s/election administrator s website all procedures and accommodations available for voters with disabilities in an accessible manner.

 NOTE :Under Section 4.009 of the Code, not later than the 21st day before election day, a county that holds an election or provides election services for an election must post certain information related to their upcoming elections. A city or independent school district that holds an election and maintains an Internet website must post the same information on their website even if the county is also posting this data.

 
 The date of the election;

 The location of each polling place;

 Each candidate for an elected office on the ballot; and

 Each measure on the ballot. (Sec. 4.009)

 
 NOTE :Section 65.016 requires a county that holds an election or provides election services for an election for a public entity to post certain information on their website. A city or independent school district that holds an election and maintains a website must also post certain information on their website related to election results, even if the county is also posting such information. Information should be posted as soon as practicable after the election and must be accessible without having to make more than two selections or view more than two network locations after accessing the home page of the county, city or school district, whichever is applicable. Required information on the websites must include:

 
 the results of each election;

 the total number of votes cast;

 the total number of votes cast for each candidate or for or against each measure;

 the total number of votes cast by personal appearance on election day;

 the total number of votes cast by personal appearance or mail during the early voting period; and

 the total number of counted and uncounted provisional ballots cast. (Sec. 65.016).

 
 We recommend that election results information remain posted on the entity s main page (or within two clicks of the main page) at least until the next election, and that the information continues to be available for the full 22-month retention period for election records. Entities may choose to make older election results information available on their website.

 N OTE :Section 51.002 requires that notice of a meeting of the county election board be posted at least 48 hours before each meeting. The county clerk/elections administrator shall post notice of the meeting on the county s website if the county maintains a website.

 4. Required Use of County Polling Places

 
 
 Political subdivisions holding an election on the November uniform election date MUST use county election precincts and the county polling places on election day . (Secs. 42.002, 42.0621, 43.004). This is the case even when the county has adopted the countywide polling place system; in that case the political subdivision must have a presence in every countywide location in the county, not just the locations physically within the territory of the political subdivision. (Secs. 42.002, 43.007(e)).

 NOTE : When a county is using the countywide polling place program and a court order requires any of the polling locations to remain open past 7 p.m., ALL countywide polling place locations MUST remain open for the same amount of time, as required by the court order. (Sec. 43.007).

 In an election held by a political subdivision other than a county on the November uniform election date, and in which the political subdivision is not holding a joint election with a county or has not executed a contract with a county elections officer under which the political subdivision and the county share early voting polling places for the election, the political subdivision must designate as one of its own early voting sites one of the early voting sites established by the county that is located in the political subdivision. If such a shared polling place is designated as the main early voting polling place by the political subdivision, it must be open for voting for all political subdivisions the polling place serves for at least the days and hours required of a main early voting polling place for the political subdivision making the designation. (Secs. 85.010, 85.002).

 NOTE: As this election is being held on the date of the general election for state and county officers, no consolidation of county election precincts may occur. (Secs. 42.002(b), 42.008, 42.009).

 5. Notice of Candidate Filing Periods 

 
 
 For more information on local political subdivision elections, see the Candidate s Guide for Local Political Subdivisions. 

 For more information on the candidate voter registration requirement, see Voter Registration Requirements for Candidates .

 The authority with whom an application for a place on the ballot is filed must post a Notice of Deadline to File an Application for Place on the Ballot (PDF), designating an email address and listing the filing period dates in a building in which the authority maintains an office. The notice must be posted not later than the 30th day before the first day to file. (Sec. 141.040). If you order a special election to fill a vacancy, the order must include the filing deadline. We recommend posting the notice of the filing period as soon as practicable after a special election is ordered. Note that an application for a place on the ballot for a special election may not be filed before the election is ordered. (Sec. 201.054).

 NOTE:  The authority with whom an application for a place on the ballot is filed MUST designate an e- mail address in the notice required by Section 141.040 of the Code for the purpose of filing an application for a place on the ballot. (Sec. 141.040).

 County Appraisal Districts in Counties with a Population of 75,000 or more: After the relevant part of SB 2 (2025, 2nd C.S.) became effective in July 2024, appraisal districts in counties with a population of 75,000 or more are governed by boards of nine directors. Under Tax Code Section 6.0301(c), a CAD board is made up of both appointed and elected directors. Five of the directors are appointed by the taxing units that participate in the district, while three directors are elected by majority vote of the voters in the county where the district operates. The elected directors are on the ballot at the general election for state and county officers (which happens in November of even years). All three elected CAD director positions will be on the ballot for the November 2026 election.

 NOTE - NEW LAW: Pursuant toHB 3575 (2025, R.S.), effective immediately, CAD board candidates must file their application for a place on the ballot with the county clerk/elections administrator . Candidates can no longer file their application with the county judge. Please see Running for County Appraisal Districts in 2026 . 

 NOTE – NEW LAW: Pursuant to HB 148 (2025, R.S.), effective September 1, 2025, an individual may not file an application for a place on the ballot for an elected position on the board of directors of an appraisal district unless the individual has signed the Acknowledgement of Duties of Member of Appraisal District Board of Directors (PDF) . The signed acknowledgement must be submitted to the chief appraiser of the appraisal district .

 6. Joint Election Requirement for School Districts

 
 
 School districts conducting trustee elections must have joint polling places on election day. At minimum, a school district needs to share polling places with a county on the November uniform election date in even-numbered years, city, or public junior college district conducting an election on the uniform election day. Sharing polling places is sufficient to meet the joint election requirement.

 For additional information, please see Mandatory ISD Joint Elections FAQ . 

 

 
 7. Joint Elections Generally 

 
 
 Many entities will have joint elections for the November 3, 2026 election. Note that the entries in this calendar are generally written in terms of elections held individually rather than jointly.

 With a few exceptions, we do not discuss the impact of coordinating rules for a joint election, as we think this would make the calendar longer and confusing. We encourage joint election partners to read through the entire calendar, taking note of the rules affecting the partner entities and to address the differences within the agreement itself. If you have questions about how different rules apply to a particular joint election plan, please contact our office by phone or email.

 
 8. Notice of Elections 

 
 
 
 Political subdivisions other than cities and school districts may have specific statutory notice requirements. In the absence of specific statutory requirements, such political subdivisions must post a notice on or before the 21st day before the election. (Sec. 4.003(b)). For the Tuesday, November 3, 2026 election, this notice must be posted on or before Tuesday, October 13, 2026. The general rule is that, additionally, notice must be given using one of the following methods:

 
 By posting a notice in each election precinct in which the election is to be held on or before the 21st day before the election, Tuesday, October 13, 2026. (Sec. 4.003(a)(2)).

 By publishing the notice at least once between the 30th day and the 10th day before the election, Sunday, October 4, 2026 – Saturday, October 24, 2026.

 By mailing a copy of the notice to each registered voter of the territory covered by the election, not later than the 10th day before election day, Saturday, October 24, 2026. (Sec. 4.003(a)(3)).

 
 Cities and School Districts: Cities and school districts are required to publish their notice in a newspaper in accordance with Section 4.003(a)(1) (See number 2 above) and may also give any additional notice. (Sec. 4.003(c)). The county must post any notice provided to the county by a political subdivision conducting an election in the county to the county s website no later than the 21st day before election day, Tuesday, October 13, 2026. (Sec. 4.003(b)). 

 Note for Counties: Notice of an election ordered by the governor or by a county authority must be published in a newspaper; the county may also give any additional notice. (Secs. 4.003(a)(1), 4.003(c)). The county must post a copy of the election notice on the county s website, if the county maintains a website. It is recommended that the county election officer post notice on the bulletin board that is used for meetings. (Sec. 4.003(b)). (Sec. 26.16(a), Tax Code).

 Note for Counties: Section 4.003 requires that counties post on the county website the notice and list of polling locations of any political subdivision that delivers their notice to the county under Section 4.008. This is regardless of whether the county is contracting with the entity. (Secs. 1.021, 4.004, 85.007).

 NOTE : In addition to any other notice given, notice of an election ordered by the governor, by a county authority, or by an authority of a city or school district must be given by the method prescribed by Section 4.003(a)(1) of the Code. (Sec. 4.003(c)).

 Note for All Political Subdivisions Except Counties: The governing body of a political subdivision must deliver notice of the election to the county election officer and voter registrar of each county in which the political subdivision is located not later than the 60th day before election day, Friday, September 4, 2026. (Sec. 4.008).

 This notice must include:

 
 The type and date of the election;

 The location of the main early voting polling place , including the street address, room number, and building name. The notice must designate which location is the main early voting polling place ;

 The location of each polling place, including the street address, room number, and building name ;

 The hours the polls will be open;

 The regular dates and hours for early voting by personal appearance;

 The dates and hours of any Saturday or Sunday early voting;

 The early voting clerk s official mailing address or street address at which the clerk may receive delivery by common or contract carrier, if different, phone number, e-mail address, and the Internet website, if the early voting clerk has an Internet website;

 We recommend that the information regarding branch early voting locations be included as part of your notice; and

 Any other information required by law.

 
 Note regarding branch early voting locations: The branch early voting locations are no longer a required part of your notice under the Texas Election Code. (Sec. 4.004).

 The following forms may be used:

 
 Notice of General Election for Counties (PDF) 

 Notice of General Election for Municipalities 

 Notice of General Election for Other Political Subdivisions (Including Schools) (PDF) 

 Notice of Special Election for Counties (PDF) 

 Notice of Special Election (Cities, Schools, and Other Political Subdivisions (PDF) 

 
 All Political Subdivisions: The election notice shall be posted on the political subdivision s website, if the political subdivision maintains a website. For political subdivisions other than counties, the original order and notice should include all days and hours for early voting by personal appearance, including voting on ANY Saturday or Sunday. (Secs. 85.006, 85.007).

 Notice for Political Subdivisions other than Counties, School Districts, and Cities: Political subdivisions other than counties, school districts, and cities may have specific statutory election notice requirements either in their enabling acts or in the code governing them (such as the Water Code). In the absence of specific statutory requirements, such political subdivisions may post a copy of the notice on or before the 21st day before the election (i.e., Tuesday, October 13, 2026) on the bulletin board used for posting notices of the meetings of the governing body of the political subdivision. (Sec. 4.003(b)).

 Notice for Bond Elections: Entities holding bond elections must provide additional notice under Section 4.003(f). A debt obligation order under Section 3.009 must be posted:

 
 On election day and during early voting by personal appearance, in a prominent location at each polling place;

 Not later than the 21st day before the election, which is Tuesday, October 13, 2026, in three public places in the boundaries of the political subdivision holding the election; and

 During the 21 days before the election, on the political subdivision s Internet website, prominently and together with the notice of the election, a copy of the sample ballot, and the contents of the proposition, if the political subdivision maintains an Internet website.

 
 The same requirements apply to the voter information document required by Government Code Section 1251.052(b) (see law for full contents of notice). The requirement referenced in Section 1251.052(b) of the Government Code applies to a political subdivision with at least 250 registered voters on the date the governing body of the political subdivision adopts the debt obligation election order.

 Home-Rule Charter Cities: Home-rule cities MUST also give notice as provided in their charters.

 Notice of Nearest Polling Places in Countywide Election: EACH countywide polling place must post a notice, at that location, of the four nearest locations, by driving distance. (Sec. 43.007(o)). Notice of Four Nearest Countywide Polling Place Locations (PDF). 

 

 
 9. Note on Regular Days and Hours for Voting 

 
 
 Counties : For elections in which the county is serving as the early voting clerk, early voting must be conducted at the main early voting location on each weekday that is not a legal state holiday for a period of at least nine (9) hours . Voting may not be conducted earlier than 6:00 AM or later than 10:00 PM. (Sec. 85.005(a)).

 Political Subdivisions Other Than Counties : For all other elections in which the county is NOT the early voting clerk, early voting must be conducted at the main early voting location on each weekday that is not a legal state holiday for a period of at least nine (9) hours unless the territory has fewer than 1,000 registered votes. For territories with less than 1,000 registered voters, voting shall be conducted for at least four (4) hours each day. (Sec. 85.005(b)).

 Note for Cities : Section 85.005(d) no longer requires cities to choose two weekdays for the main early voting polling place location to be open for at least 12 hours during the regular early voting period. (Sec. 85.005).

 

 
 10. Note on Extended Early Voting Hours 

 
 
 Extended Early Voting Hours

 For information on extended early voting weekday hours, ordering voting on any Saturday or Sunday, and Chapter 19 Funds, please see Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2023-10 .

 Early voting hours for the main early-voting polling place are as follows:

 
 Week 1 
 
 Sunday 
 Monday 
 Tuesday 
 Wednesday 
 Thursday 
 Friday 
 Saturday 
 

 
 October 18 

 19 

 20 

 21 

 22 

 23 

 24 

 

 
 X

 At least 9 hours

 At least 9 hours

 At least 9 hours

 At least 9 hours

 At least 9 hours

 At least 12 hours

 

 

 
 
 Week 
 2
 
 
 Sunday 
 Monday 
 Tuesday 
 Wednesday 
 Thursday 
 Friday 
 Saturday 
 

 
 October 25 

 26 

 27 

 28 

 29 

 30 

 31 

 

 
 At least 6 hours

 At least 12 hours

 At least 12 hours

 At least 12 hours

 At least 12 hours

 At least 12 hours

 None

 

 

 
 
 Week 
 3
 
 
 Sunday 
 Monday 
 Tuesday 
 

 
 November 1 

 2 

 3 

 

 
 None

 None

 Election Day

 

 
 For more information on early voting changes, please see Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2023-10 .

 
 Extended Early Voting Hours

 
 Note for ALL counties : Voting in the general election for state and county officers shall be conducted at the main early voting location for at least 12 consecutive hours on each weekday of the last week of early voting. Voting may not be conducted earlier than 6:00 AM or later than 10:00 PM. (Sec. 85.005(c)).

 
 Weekend Early Voting Hours

 
 NOTE FOR ALL COUNTIES REGARDLESS OF POPULATION SIZE : The main early voting location must be open for at least 12 consecutive hours on the last Saturday of the early voting period, except that voting may not be conducted earlier than 6:00 AM or later than 10:00 PM, and for at least 6 consecutive hours on the last Sunday of the early voting period, except that voting may not be conducted earlier than 9:00 AM or later than 10:00 PM. (Sec. 85.006(e)).

 
 NOTE FOR COUNTIES WITH A POPULATION OF 100,000 OR MORE : In counties with a population of 100,000 or more, early voting must be conducted for at least 12 consecutive hours on the last Saturday and at least 6 consecutive hours on the last Sunday of the early voting period at any required temporary branch locations (created under Section 85.062(d) of the Texas Election Code). (Secs. 85.006(e), 85.062(d), 85.064(d)).

 
 NOTE : There is no petition process to require a county with a population less than 100,000 to conduct weekend early voting at temporary branch locations. However, the early voting clerk may voluntarily order weekend early voting at temporary branch locations by written order if they choose to do so.

 NOTE: Section 19.004 of the Code provides that if the registrar s county has a population of less than 55,000, the county may use Chapter 19 funding to defray the cost to the registrar s county of keeping the polling places in the county open during the early voting period as required under Sections 85.005(c), 85.006(e), and 85.064(d).

 
 Note for Political Subdivisions Other Than Counties: Voting on ANY Saturday or Sunday must be included in the order and notice of election. The order and notice must include the dates and hours of Saturday or Sunday voting. (Secs. 85.006, 85.007). The political subdivision must have early voting on Saturday or Sunday, if a written request (PDF) is received from at least 15 registered voters of the political subdivision prior to the election being ordered. (Sec. 85.006(d)). The election notice must be posted on the political subdivision s website, if the political subdivision maintains a website. (Sec. 85.007).

 
 Note for Cities: In an election in which a city secretary is the early voting clerk, voting on any Saturday or Sunday must be included in the order and notice of election. City secretaries no longer have the authority to order Saturday or Sunday early voting 72 hours immediately preceding the first hour that voting will be conducted. However, the city must have early voting on Saturday or Sunday, if a written request (PDF) is received from at least 15 registered voters of the political subdivision prior to the election being ordered. (Secs. 85.006, 85.007).

 11. Note on Temporary Branch Locations 

 
 In the general election for state and county officers, a certain number of temporary branch locations must be established depending on the population size of the county:

 
 in a county with a population of 400,000 or more, the commissioners court must establish one or more temporary polling places, other than the main early voting polling place, in each state representative district containing territory covered by the election.

 in a county with a population of 120,000 or more but less than 400,000, the commissioners court must establish one or more temporary polling places, other than the main early voting polling place, in each commissioners precinct containing territory covered by the election.

 in a county with a population of 100,000 or more but less than 120,000, the early voting clerk must establish one or more early voting polling places in each commissioners precinct for which the early voting clerk receives a timely filed written request by at least 15 registered voters of that precinct .

 
 The temporary polling place(s) must remain open for each weekday of the early voting period that the main early voting polling place will be open. The temporary branch polling place(s) must be open at least eight hours each day. (Secs. 85.062, 85.064).

 NOTE :Section 85.062 provides that the location of temporary branch polling places in an election in which countywide polling places are used must be determined with the same methodology that is used for the location of countywide polling places.

 
 NOTE : In a countywide election, the total number of permanent branch polling places and temporary branch polling places open for voting at the same time in a commissioners precinct may not exceed twice the number of permanent branch and temporary branch polling places open at that time in another commissioners precinct. (Sec. 85.062(f)).

 
 NOTE : If the early voting clerk is a county election officer or city secretary, the clerk must post notice (PDF) for each election stating any dates and the hours that voting on Saturday or Sunday will be conducted under Section 85.064(d). (Sec. 85.068).

 Note for all political subdivisions: If a local political subdivision is contracting for election services with a county, or is holding a joint election with the county, the local political subdivision must amend their order and notice of election to include any weekend early voting that the county is conducting.

 
 NOTE : Section 85.064 requires early voting by personal appearance at each temporary branch polling places to be conducted on the days that early voting is required to be conducted at the main early voting polling place under Section 85.005 and MUST remain open for at least eight (8) hours each day; or for at least three (3) hours each day if the city or county clerk/elections administrator does not serve as the early voting clerk for the territory holding the election and the territory has fewer than 1,000 registered voters. For certain political subdivisions, this will require your temporary branch locations to be open on every weekday of the early voting period, for at least eight hours on each of those days

 NOTE : Section 19.004 of the Code provides that if the registrar s county has a population of less than 55,000, the county may use Chapter 19 funding to defray the cost to the registrar s county of keeping the polling places in the county open during the early voting period as required under Sections 85.005(c), 85.006(e), and 85.064(d).

 
 Note for Cities: City secretaries no longer have the authority to order Saturday or Sunday early voting. Any weekend early voting hours must be ordered by city council. (Secs. 85.006, 85.007).

 
 
 

 
 12. Note on Notice of Previous Polling Place

 

 If a different polling place is being used from the previous election held by the same authority, a Notice of Change to Polling Place must be posted at the entrance of the previous polling place informing voters of the current polling place location, if possible. (Sec. 43.062).

 

 
 13. Note on Notice of Change of Polling Place Location 

 
 
 
 For elections ordered by the governor or county judge only , if the location of the polling place changes after notice has been given under Section 4.003 of the Texas Election Code, and the county election officer maintains a website to inform voters about elections, the notice of the change must be posted on the website. The notice on the website must be posted not later than the earlier of (1) 24 hours after the location was changed; or (2) 72 hours before the polls open on election day. (Sec. 43.061). As a reminder, notice should also be provided to the Secretary of State regarding any changes made to the location of polling places. Notice of Change in Polling Place (PDF). 

 For the counties that are conducting a legislative-vacancy election, the candidates listed on the ballot are entitled to receive notice directly from the county judge.

 
 
 14. Note on Combining Precincts 

 
 
 
 NOTE - NEW LAW: SB 985 (2025, R.S.) amended Section 42.0051 of the Code, effective September 1, 2025, to allow election officials to combine county election precincts with fewer than 3,000 registered voters to avoid unreasonable expenditures for election equipment, supplies, and personnel. Counties that do not participate in the countywide polling place program under Section 43.007 may combine precincts if election officials cannot secure a suitable polling-place location under Section 43.031 and the location of the combined polling place adequately serves the voters of the combined precinct. If you have questions about combining districts under this provision, please contact the Secretary of State s Elections Division.

 
 NOTE : A county cannot consolidate election precincts in the November General Election for state and county officers. The consolidation of precincts is only available in a special election that requires the use of county election precincts, such as a constitutional amendment election or an election to fill a legislative or congressional vacancy (Sec. 42.008), or in a primary election (Sec. 42.009). Please see Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2025-13. 

 
 
 
 15. Note on Testing Tabulating and Electronic Voting Equipment 

 
 
 NOTE - NEW LAW: SB 2166 (2025, R.S.) modifies the requirements for conducting the Public Logic and Accuracy and the Tabulation Testing for automatic tabulating. These changes clarify the testing requirements and procedures for these tests to harmonize testing and notice requirements, codify existing testing procedures, establish deadlines for conducting the testing, and require testing of electronic-pollbook systems.

 Ballot Proofing:

 Once all candidate filing deadlines have passed, we recommend that you proof your ballot programming as soon as possible, and before the Public Logic and Accuracy Test is conducted. Early proofing will allow adequate time to locate any errors and make any necessary corrections in ballot programming. We also strongly suggest that you have candidates proof their names and offices before finalizing the ballot to avoid the necessity for last-minute ballot corrections. 

 
 Logic and Accuracy Test (L&A) and First Tabulation Test:

 
 NOTE - NEW LAW: SB 2166 (2025, R.S.) , effective September 1, 2025, clarifies the requirements for the Public L&A test and tabulation testing by requiring them to be conducted at the same time and by distinguishing the testing procedures for precinct scanners from the testing procedures for central accumulators. The bill also harmonizes the notice requirements for both tests and requires the testing to be performed by the 48th day before election day. (Secs. 127.092, 127.096, 127.099, 129.021).

 
 The initial public testing of your electronic voting equipment must be completed no later than the 48th day before election day. However, if the test cannot be conducted by the 48th day deadline, then the general custodian shall conduct the test as soon as practicable after that date and must notify the Secretary of State s Office within 24 hours of the determination that the deadline cannot be met. (Sec. 129.023).

 
 This testing process will consist of three basic tests that are conducted simultaneously:

 
 Public Logic and Accuracy Test (L&A) – This test is designed to ensure that your system is accurately marking your ballots and tabulating the ballots marked by your system. (Sec. 127.092).

 First Tabulation Test of Central Counting Station Equipment – This test is designed to ensure that your central scanners and central accumulator are functioning correctly and tabulating ballots correctly. (Sec. 127.093).

 Tabulation Test of Polling Place Equipment – This test is designed to ensure your precinct scanners are functioning correctly and tabulating ballots correctly. (Sec. 127.092).

 
 
 These tests are conducted by a testing board consisting of at least two persons, with at least one person from each political party. The testing board members are appointed by the general custodian of election records. (Sec. 127.092).

 Notice of the public testing of your voting system must be posted on the political subdivision s website at least 48 hours before the test begins. Please note that you are no longer required to publish notice in the newspaper for the First Tabulation Test.

 
 NOTE : If logic and accuracy testing is being conducted for an election in which a county election board has been established under Section 51.002 of the Texas Election Code, the general custodian of election records shall notify each member of the board of the test at least 48 hours before the date of the test. If the county election board chooses to witness the test, each member shall sign the statement required for logic and accuracy testing. (Sec. 129.023(b-2)).

 
 NOTE : NEW LAW: SB 2166 (2025, R.S.) , effective September 1, 2025, requires the general custodian of election records to demonstrate, using a representative sample of voting system equipment, that the source code of the equipment has not been altered. For purposes of this requirement, a representative sample means ten of each type of voting device, or five percent of each type of voting device to be used in the election, whichever number is smaller. See Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2019-23 and Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2022-30 for more information on hash validation and voting system procedures.

 
 For additional guidance on the procedures for conducting the public testing of your voting system, please review Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2019-23 . An updated advisory is forthcoming.

 
 Second and Third Tabulation Tests of Central Counting Station Equipment: 

 
 NOTE - NEW LAW: SB 2166 (2025, R.S.) , effective September 1, 2025, modifies the procedures for tabulation testing by clarifying that precinct scanners are required to be tested once as part of the Public L&A test, while central counting station equipment is required to be tested three times for each election. The First Tabulation Test of Central Counting Station Equipment and the Tabulation Test of Polling Place Equipment are discussed in the section above. (Secs. 127.092, 127.094).

 
 The automatic tabulating equipment used for counting ballots at a central counting station must be tested three times for each election. This includes any central scanners and any central accumulators used at the central counting station. The first test of this equipment is conducted alongside the Public L&A test and the Tabulation Test of Polling Place Equipment, and must be performed no later than the 48th day before election day. (Sec. 129.023).

 
 The Second Tabulation Test of Central Counting Station Equipment must be conducted immediately before the counting of ballots with the equipment begins. The Third Test must be conducted immediately after the counting of ballots with the equipment is completed. The electronic media created from the First Test are what must be used for testing the tabulating equipment for the Second and Third Tests. ( Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2019-23 ).

 
 For additional guidance on the procedures for conducting the Second and Third Tests of your Central Counting Station Equipment, please review Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2019-23 . An updated advisory is forthcoming.

 
 Logic and Accuracy Testing of Electronic Pollbooks: 

 NOTE - NEW LAW: SB 2166 (2025, R.S.) , effective September 1, 2025, requires logic and accuracy testing for electronic pollbook systems to be conducted for each election.

 The general custodian of election records is required to conduct a test of logic and accuracy of the electronic pollbook system used in the election. The test must be conducted at least 48 hours before voting begins in an election. (Sec. 129.0231).

 The test must verify that:

 
 The database of voters is correctly loaded onto the system and devices;

 Peripheral devices used with the system are functioning correctly;

 Ballot styles have been correctly assigned to voters; and

 Any ballots issued by the system and any peripheral devices used with the system are correctly read by any voting system used in the election. (Sec. 129.0231(c)).

 

 Notice of the test must be posted on the political subdivision s website at least 48 hours before the test begins. If the political subdivision does not maintain a website, the notice must be posted on the bulletin board used for posting notice of meetings of the political subdivision s governing body.

 
 
 
 16. Note on Accepting Voters with Certain Disabilities and Curbside Voting 

 
 
 NOTE - NEW LAW: HB 521 (2025, R.S.), effective September 1, 2025, makes several changes to curbside voting and assistance procedures. See Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2025-12 .

 
 The recommended time to post the voting-order priority notice on a county website is when the Notice of Election is posted. (Sec. 85.007(d)). See Note 8 regarding Notice of Elections.

 
 Cities, Schools, and Other Political Subdivisions : It is strongly recommended that the notice regarding accepting voters with certain disabilities also be posted on the subdivision s website, if one is maintained by the political subdivision. 

 
 
 17. Note on Law Regarding Submission of FPCAs and ABBMs 

 
 
 If an ABBM is faxed or emailed or if an FPCA is faxed, then the applicant must submit the ORIGINAL application BY MAIL to the early voting clerk so that the early voting clerk receives the original no later than the 4th business day after receiving the emailed or faxed ABBM or faxed FPCA. If the early voting clerk does not receive the original ABBM or FPCA by that deadline, then the emailed or faxed ABBM or faxed FPCA will be considered incomplete, and the early voting clerk may NOT send the applicant a ballot. The early voting clerk should retain a copy of the FPCA for their own records, but should send the FPCA submitted by the voter to the Voter Registrar for registration purposes. (Sec. 84.007).

 
 If a voter faxes or emails the ABBM or faxes the FPCA, the date the early voting clerk receives the fax or email is considered the date of submission. Essentially, the faxed or emailed form serves as a place-holder for the voter. Therefore, a voter whose application was faxed or emailed by the 11th day before election day (which is Friday, October 23, 2026, the deadline), and whose original application is received on or before the 4th business day after that date, would still be entitled to receive a ballot for the election (if otherwise eligible). The early voting clerk will have to hold the faxed or emailed ABBM or faxed FPCA until the clerk receives the original, and would only send the voter a ballot if the original is received by the 4th business day after the faxed or emailed ABBM or faxed FPCA was received.

 
 The requirement to mail the original application does not apply to an emailed FPCA, but does apply to a faxed FPCA.

 NOTE: A person is eligible for an FPCA if the person is qualified to vote in this state or, if not registered to vote in this state, would be qualified if registered and the person is:

 
 a member of the armed forces of the United States, or the spouse or a dependent of a member;

 a member of the merchant marine of the United States, or the spouse or a dependent of a member;

 a member of the Texas National Guard or the National Guard of another state or a member of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States serving on active duty under an order of the president of the United States; or activated on state orders, or the spouse or dependent of a member; or

 a United States citizen that is temporarily living outside of the territorial limits of the United States and the District of Columbia. (Sec. 101.001).

 

 NOTE: An FPCA may be submitted by in-person delivery by the voter in accordance with Section 84.008 or by common or contract carrier. Further, an application is considered submitted in the following calendar year if: 1) the applicant is eligible to vote in an election occurring in January or February of the next calendar year; and 2) the application is submitted in the last 60 days of a calendar year but not earlier than the 60th day before the date of the January or February election. (Sec. 101.052).

 
 NOTE:   An applicant for a ballot to be voted by mail may submit the application by delivering it in person to the early voting clerk if the application is submitted not later than the deadline provided by Section 84.007(c) of the Code. This means that voters may personally deliver their ABBM or FPCA to the early voting clerk not later than the close of regular business in the early voting clerk s office or 12 noon, whichever is later, on the 11th day before election day (unless that day is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal state or national holiday, in which case the last day is the first preceding regular business day). (Sec. 84.008).

 
 
 
 
 18. Note on Opportunity to Correct Defect(s) with Application for Ballot by Mail and Carrier Envelope 

 
 
 NOTE - NEW LAW: SB 2964 (2025, R.S.) , effective September 1, 2025, requires the early voting clerk to send a voter a notice of defect and a corrective action form no later than two days after discovering the defect and before the time of delivery to the early voting ballot board by common carrier or contract carrier. Please note that this eliminates the option for early voting clerks to return the defective carrier envelope to the voter in person or by mail . (Sec. 86.011).

 
 The notice provided to the voter must provide a brief explanation of each defect in the carrier envelope and a notice that the voter may cancel the voter s application to vote by mail and vote in person, correct certain defects using the ballot by mail tracker, or correct the defect by submitting a corrective action form or coming to the early voting clerk s office no later than the sixth day after election day. 

 If the early voting clerk believes that the voter cannot receive the notice within a reasonable time to correct the ballot, the early voting clerk may notify the voter of the defect by telephone or e-mail. For more information on corrective-action procedures, please see Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2023-13. 

 
 
 
 19. Note on Reconciliation Forms and Post-Election Reports 

 
 
 
 For those entities that use a central counting station, the presiding judge of the central counting station must prepare a preliminary reconciliation form (PDF) on election night and a final reconciliation form (PDF) after the canvass.

 
 The reconciliation forms must be posted on the county website with election returns and results after they are completed and signed. This posting requirement applies regardless of whether a local entity is contracting with the county for election services. We recommend that local entities post the reconciliation form on their website, if the entity maintains a website. We further recommend that the reconciliation forms remain posted at least until the next election, and that the forms are available for the full 22-month retention period for election records. An entity may choose to make older reconciliation forms available as part of historical results on its website.

 
 If a jurisdiction uses optical scanners, then immediately after closing the polling place at the end of early voting and on election day, the presiding election judge must generate separate reports from each optical scanner used at the polling place regarding the total number of ballots scanned by that scanner during both the early voting period and election day. (Sec. 125.0635).

 
 In an election using centrally counted optical scan ballots, the presiding judge of the central counting station shall prepare a report regarding the total number of ballots scanned by each optical scanner from each data-storage device. The presiding judge of the central counting station shall prepare one report for the total number of ballots from each specific data-storage device. The presiding judge of the central counting station must prepare the report for the data-storage device before the information from the storage device is read into a central accumulator. The report prepared before the opening of polling locations on election day may not contain information on the number of votes cast for any candidate or for or against any proposition. (Sec. 127.1302).

 
 NOTE - NEW LAW: SB 2217 (2025, R.S.) , effective September 1, 2025, requires the general custodian of election records for an entity that uses an electronic pollbook system for an election to produce certain reports from the pollbook system no later than the 30th day after election day. Those reports must include a combination form report and a report listing all the voters who were accepted to vote in the election, including the voter s polling place and precinct. (Secs. 31.014, 63.0011, 65.057, 66.006, 125.0635,127.1302, 127.133).

 
 Post-Election Reconciliation: Not later than the 30th day after election day, the general custodian of election records shall prepare a reconciliation of the total number of votes cast and the total number of voters accepted to vote by personal appearance at each polling place in the custodian s county during the early voting period and on election day respectively. The general custodian of election records shall post the results of this reconciliation on the county s website in the same location that the county provides information on election results. (Sec. 66.005).

 
 
 
 20. Online Training Materials 

 
 
 Chapters 32, 87, and 127 require the Secretary of State to develop materials for a standardized curriculum for online training in election law and procedure, including a published handbook, for election judges and members of an early voting ballot board, signature verification committee, and central counting station. These materials are available on the Secretary of State s Internet website, free of charge, and require the passage of an examination at the end of the program.

 
 To view education and training materials issued by the Secretary of State, please visit the Training and Education Resources page on our website. 

 

 
 21. Services Performable Under Contract and Mandatory Office Hours 

 
 
 Section 31.094 provides that an election-services contract may provide for the county election officer to perform or to supervise the performance of any or all of the corresponding duties and functions that the officer performs in connection with a countywide election ordered by a county authority.

 
 The county election officer may assign deputies to perform any of the contracted services. (Sec. 31.095). However, an election services contract may not change the candidate application filing authority, the filing authority for Title 15 documents related to campaign finance, or a political subdivision s requirement to maintain office hours under Section 31.122 of the Code. (Sec. 31.096).

 
 NOTE - NEW LAW: HB 640 (2025, R.S.) , effective September 1, 2025, amended Section 31.122 to require counties, cities, or other political subdivisions to keep their election offices open for election duties on regular business days when the county, city, or political subdivision is regularly open for business. A regular business day means a day on which the political subdivision s main business office is regularly open for business. (Sec. 31.122(b)). 

 
 
 22. Early Voting Rosters 

 
 
 The early voting clerk shall maintain for each election a roster listing each person who votes an early voting ballot by personal appearance and a roster listing each person to whom an early voting ballot to be voted by mail is sent. The list must include, at minimum, the name, VUID, and precinct number for each voter. Each roster shall be updated daily . Information on the roster for a person who votes an early voting ballot by personal appearance shall be made available for public inspection not later than 11:00 a.m. on the day after the date the information is entered on the roster. 

 
 Information on the roster for a person who votes an early voting ballot by mail shall be made available for public inspection not later than 11:00 a.m. on the day following the day the early voting clerk receives a ballot voted by mail. The clerk shall preserve each roster after the election for the period for preserving the precinct election records. (Sec. 87.121).

 
 For all elections in which the county clerk/elections administrator is the early voting clerk (including by contract and/or joint election agreement), the information on the early voting rosters (in-person and by-mail voters) must be posted on the county s website. Section 87.121 does not state a specific time by which the early voting rosters must be posted online; our office recommends that the rosters be posted by 11:00 a.m. each day.

 
 For all elections in which the county clerk/elections administrator is not the early voting clerk by contract or law, or a joint-election agreement, the information on the early voting roster (in-person and by-mail voters) must be posted on the local political subdivision s website. If the authority that ordered the election does not maintain a website, then the information on the roster must be posted on the bulletin board used for posting notice of meetings of the governing body of the authority. Again, Section 87.121 does not state a specific time by which the early voting rosters must be posted online, but we recommend posting them by 11:00 a.m. each day.

 
 If an early voting clerk fails to post the early voting rosters in accordance with Section 87.121, a person registered to vote in the county where the early voting clerk is conducting early voting may file a complaint with the Secretary of State regarding the early voting clerk s noncompliance. (Sec. 87.121(o)).

 
 Note for local political subdivisions : The early voting clerk for each political subdivision is also responsible for posting or linking to the early voting roster:

 
 
 If the entity is contracting with the county , the early voting roster must be posted on the county s website and the entity should provide a link to that list on the entity s website.

 If the entity is NOT contracting with the county, the early voting roster must be posted on the entity s website.

 We recommend that rosters remain posted at least until the next election, and that the rosters are available for the full 22-month retention period for election records. An entity may choose to make older rosters available as part of historical results on its website.

 

 

 
 23. Inspection of Voted Ballots, Cast Vote Records, and Voter Privacy 

 
 
 For information on the inspection of voted ballots, including ballot images and cast vote records, as well as guidelines on voter privacy, please see Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2024-05 and Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2024-20. 
 

 
 Our office recommends that the county elections office work closely with its county attorney and its public information division in ensuring that records have been properly redacted before being made publicly available. Please direct any questions about the procedures for responding to a public information request, including the timeframes for such responses, to the Office of the Attorney General via its Open Government Hotline, (877) OPEN TEX (673-6839).

 
 In all circumstances, an election official must be sure to maintain the security and integrity of the ballots and the public s right to review records, as well as the voter s constitutional right to a secret ballot. If an entity s election official decides that certain information should be redacted in response to a particular public information request, the official must obtain the requestor s consent to redact such information or seek an open-records ruling from the Attorney General authorizing the redactions in that specific circumstance. We recommend that the elections office work closely with the entity s attorney and the entity s public information division in ensuring that records have been properly redacted before being made publicly available.

 

 
 24. Note on Requirements for Certain Ballot Propositions and Related Procedures 

 
 
 NEW LAW – SB 506 (2025, R.S.) makes several changes to the requirements and procedures related to ballot propositions. 

 
 SB 506 added Section 52.072(g) to the Texas Election Code. This new subsection provides that ballot propositions must substantially submit the question with such definiteness, certainty, and facial neutrality that the voters are not misled. (Sec. 52.072(g)). The new provision applies to all ballot propositions governed by the Code.  The standard in the new subsection is similar to the one that courts have long used when examining ballot propositions. In Dacus v. Parker , 466 S.W.3d 820 (Tex. 2015), for instance, the Texas Supreme Court held that propositions must be submitted with such definiteness and certainty that voters are not misled. For entities that write ballot propositions, SB 506 emphasizes that the authors should take care to make sure that the ballot language is clear, definite, and neutral.  

 
 SB 506 also added Section 273.101 to the Code, which creates a new procedure through which a registered voter eligible to vote in the election or an authorized representative of a home-rule city can initiate a review by the Secretary of State of ballot proposition language that proposes an amendment to the city charter or a voter-initiated initiative or referendum as requested by petition. Please note that the Secretary of State will not review ballot-proposition language except as is required by Section 273.101 of the Code. 

 Because ballot propositions may require legal expertise to draft, we recommend that counties and local political subdivisions work closely with their attorneys whenever possible. 

 For more information on the requirements for certain ballot propositions and related procedures, please see Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2026-06 . 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 Calendar of Events

 
 January

 
 Thursday, January 1, 2026

 
 First day for voters to submit an ABBM, an Annual ABBM, or a Federal Postcard Application (FPCA). The Annual ABBM and FPCA allows the voter to receive ballots for all elections in which they are eligible to vote held in 2026. Voters who will be 65 or older on election day or voters with a disability are eligible to submit an annual application. The application is considered submitted at the time of receipt. (Secs. 84.001(e), 84.007, 86.0015).

 
 May

 
 Monday, May 25, 2026 (Memorial Day)

 

 Tuesday, May 26, 2026 (75th day after convention party precinct conventions) 

 
 Deadline for chairs to submit petitions and precinct convention lists to Secretary of State and to the appropriate county clerk (or other county election official) for placement on the ballot. The deadline is extended to the next regular business day which is Tuesday, May 26, 2026 due to the 75th day falling on Sunday, May 24, 2026 and Monday, May 25, 2026 is Memorial Day, a legal state holiday. (Secs. 1.006, 181.005(a), 181.006(b)(3), 182.003, 182.004).

 
 June

 Monday, June 15, 2026 (20th day after Runoff Primary Election Day)

 First day of new term for political party county and precinct chairs elected in the March 3, 2026 Primary Election. (Sec. 171.022(c)).

 Thursday, June 18, 2026 (30th day before Saturday, July 18, 2026, first day to file )

 Cities, Schools and Other Political Subdivisions Deadline to post Notice of Deadline to File an Application for Place on the Ballot (PDF) in a public place in a building in which the authority maintains an office. The notice must be posted not later than the 30th day before the first day to file. (Sec. 141.040, Election Code; Sec. 49.113, Water Code).

 For more information on candidate filings, see Candidate s Guide for Local Political Subdivisions .

 Water Districts The notice must be posted at the district s administrative office or at the public place established by the district under Section 49.063 of the Water Code. (Sec. 49.113, Water Code).

 NOTE The authority with whom an application for a place on the ballot is filed is required to designate an e-mail address in the notice required by Section 141.040 of the Code for the purpose of filing an application for a place on the ballot.

 NOTE: The delivery, submission, or filing of an application with an employee of the filing authority at the authority s usual place for conducting official business constitutes filing with the authority. (Sec. 1.007).

 County Appraisal Districts in Counties with a Population of 75,000 or more: After the relevant part of SB 2 (2025, 2nd C.S.) became effective in July 2024, appraisal districts in counties with a population of 75,000 or more are governed by boards of nine directors. Under Tax Code Section 6.0301(c), a CAD board is made up of both appointed and elected directors. Five of the directors are appointed by the taxing units that participate in the district, while three directors are elected by majority vote of the voters in the county where the district operates. The elected directors are on the ballot at the general election for state and county officers (which happens in November of even years). All three elected CAD director positions will be on the ballot for the November 2026 election. 

 NOTE - NEW LAW: Pursuant toHB 3575 (2025, R.S.), effective immediately, CAD board candidates must file their application for a place on the ballot with the county clerk/elections administrator . Candidates can no longer file their application with the county judge.  Please see Running for County Appraisal Districts in 2026 . 

 NOTE – NEW LAW: Pursuant to HB 148 (2025, R.S.), effective September 1, 2025, an individual may not file an application for a place on the ballot for an elected position on the board of directors of an appraisal district unless the individual has signed the Acknowledgement of Duties of Member of Appraisal District Board of Directors (PDF) . The signed acknowledgement must be submitted to the chief appraiser of the appraisal district .

 Friday, June 19, 2026 (Juneteenth)

 

 Thursday, June 25, 2026 (30th day after Runoff Primary Election Day)

 Counties: 5:00 p.m. — Filing deadline for independent candidate s application for place on ballot (PDF) and petition (PDF) for the November General Election for state and county officers. (Sec. 142.006). See Independent Candidates Guide . 

 Tuesday, June 30, 2026 (Last day in June)

 In a county with a population of over 500,000 , deadline for party chairs to submit to county commissioners court a list of eligible persons for precinct presiding election and alternate presiding judges for appointments, as well as for presiding and alternate presiding judges of central counting station for appointments for the November General Election for state and county officers. (Secs. 32.002(a)(1), (c), 127.005(e)).

 Deadline for party chairs to submit to county election officer the list of eligible persons to serve as election officers for the main and any branch early voting location for the November General Election for state and county officers. (Sec. 85.009).

 Recommended date that party chairs, in a county with a population of over 500,000 , submit to the county election board a list of names of eligible persons to serve on the early voting ballot board for the November General Election for state and county officers. (Sec. 87.002(c), (d)). NOTE: This is not a deadline; just a recommendation. 

 NOTE Section 87.002 requires the early voting ballot board to have an alternate judge. The alternate judge is appointed in the same manner as the presiding judge.

 
 NOTE A signature verification committee may be appointed at a later date. (Sec. 87.027).

 
 Political Subdivisions Other than Counties: For recommended date to appoint your presiding election judges, see entry under August 17, 2026 .

 
 July

 July Term

 
 Counties with a Population of Over 500,000 This is meant for counties that did not make two-year appointments in 2025, and will be making appointments in the July 2026 term. The commissioners court must appoint the election judges for each regular county election precinct, the presiding and alternate judge for the central counting station, and the presiding and alternate judge for the early voting ballot board at its July term in a county with a population of over 500,000. In counties with a population of over 500,000, the terms of the judges start on August 1, 2026. See entry for Tuesday, June 30, 2026. See Tex. Sec'y of State Election Advisory No. 2026-19 for more information on appointment procedures.

 Wednesday , July 1, 2026 – Thursday, October 1, 2026

 Recommended timeframe for the county election board in a county with a population of over 500,000 to appoint the members to the early voting ballot board for the November General Election for state and county officers. (Sec. 87.002(c), (d)). Section 87.002(c) of the Election Code does not provide a deadline for the county election board to make such appointments. NOTE: This is not a deadline; just a recommendation. October 1 is the recommended deadline because of various notice requirements. 

 
 NOTE:  Section 87.002 requires the early voting ballot board to have an alternate judge. The alternate judge is appointed in the same manner as the presiding judge. 

 
 It is also recommended that the commissioners court, in a county with a population of over 500,000 , appoint during its July term the central counting station manager, tabulation supervisor, and assistants to the tabulation supervisor if it has established a central counting station. (Secs. 127.001, 127.002, 127.003, 127.004). NOTE: This is not a deadline; just a recommendation. 

 
 Saturday, July 4, 2026 (Independence Day)

 

 
 Friday, July 17, 2026

 
 Last day for candidates planning to file for a place on the general election ballot (local non-county political subdivisions only) to register to vote or update voter registration.

 
 Saturday, July 18, 2026 (30th day before Monday, August 17, 2026, regular filing deadline for a place on the ballot)

 Counties First day to file a Declaration of Write-In Candidacy (PDF) and accompanying filing fee or nominating petition (PDF) in lieu of filing fee with the county judge or Secretary of State, as applicable, for the November General Election for state and county officers. (Secs. 146.023, 146.0231, 146.0232, 146.025(a), 172.024, 172.025). See Write-In Candidates Guide. 

 Political Subdivisions Other Than Counties : First day to file an application for a place on the ballot or a declaration of write-in candidacy. (Secs. 143.007(a), 144.005(a), 146.054, Election Code; Secs. 11.055, 11.056, 130.082(g), 130.0825, Educ. Code). See Candidacy Filing outline for more details. The following forms are available on the Secretary of State s website:

 
 
 Application for Place on City/School/Other Political Subdivision Ballot (PDF) 

 
 
 If your home rule city or special law district allows for a petition, the following petition may be used Petition for a Place on the Ballot for a Local Political Subdivision (PDF) 

 
 
 Declaration of Write-In Candidacy for City, School, or other Political Subdivisions (PDF) 

 
 County Appraisal Districts in Counties with a Population of 75,000 or more: After the relevant part of SB 2 (2025, 2nd C.S.) became effective in July 2024, appraisal districts in counties with a population of 75,000 or more are governed by boards of nine directors. Under Tax Code Section 6.0301(c), a CAD board is made up of both appointed and elected directors. Five of the directors are appointed by the taxing units that participate in the district, while three directors are elected by majority vote of the voters in the county where the district operates. The elected directors are on the ballot at the general election for state and county officers (which happens in November of even years). All three elected CAD director positions will be on the ballot for the November 2026 election. 

 
 NOTE - NEW LAW: Pursuant toHB 3575 (2025, R.S.), effective immediately, CAD board candidates must file their application for a place on the ballot with the county clerk/elections administrator . Candidates can no longer file their application with the county judge.  Please see Running for County Appraisal Districts in 2026 . 

 NOTE – NEW LAW: Pursuant to HB 148 (2025, R.S.), effective September 1, 2025, an individual may not file an application for a place on the ballot for an elected position on the board of directors of an appraisal district unless the individual has signed the Acknowledgement of Duties of Member of Appraisal District Board of Directors (PDF) . The signed acknowledgement must be submitted to the chief appraiser of the appraisal district .

 
 For more information on CAD board elections, please see Running for County Appraisal Districts in 2026 . 

 
 NOTE :We are often asked how filing can begin if you have not yet ordered the general election. You do not need to order your general (regularly occurring) election in order for the filing period to begin.

 
 NOTE :The delivery, submission, or filing of an application with an employee of the filing authority at the authority s usual place for conducting official business constitutes filing with the authority. (Sec. 1.007).

 
 NOTE: Cities, Schools, and Other Political Subdivisions At least part of the candidate filing period will occur during the summer break for school districts. Additionally, there are political subdivisions that do not have office hours on all days of the business week (Monday through Friday) or do not have an office that is open for eight hours each day of the business week. The Elections Division recommends that political subdivisions take steps to have someone available for a few hours most days during the candidate filing period to accept filings, and that political subdivisions post a schedule on their websites and on the bulletin boards where notices of meetings are posted of the days and times when someone will be available to accept filings. 

 
 The Elections Division also strongly recommends having someone available at the place of business on the filing deadline, especially from 2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m., if you are otherwise closed. This guideline is based on the office-hour rule under Section 31.122 of the Election Code. Although a political subdivision may accept applications by mail and fax, without a person there at the office, the political subdivision will not be able to determine which applications were timely filed by 5:00 p.m.

 
 NOTE - NEW LAW: HB 3629 (2025, R.S.) prohibits individuals who are required to register as sex offenders under Chapter 62, Code of Criminal Procedure, from serving on the board of trustees of an independent school district. Candidates seeking to serve on the board of trustees of an independent school district must include a statement on their candidate application acknowledging that they are ineligible to serve if they are required to register as a sex offender under Chapter 62, Code of Criminal Procedure. 

 
 NOTE: Candidate applications, other than those that must be accompanied by a filing fee, may be filed via email. The application must be a scanned copy of the candidate application and must be sent to the filing authority s designated email address for accepting applications. (Secs. 143.004, 144.003).

 Monday, July 20, 2026

 
 First day to file as a write-in candidate for the November General Election for state and county officers. (Sec. 146.025(a)). A declaration of write-in candidacy filed by mail is considered to be filed at the time of its receipt by the appropriate authority. (Sec. 146.025(c)). See Write-In Candidates Guide. 
-->

 Friday, July 31, 2026 (last day before August )

 In a county with a population of 500,000 or less , deadline for party chairs to submit to county commissioners court list of eligible persons for precinct presiding election and alternate presiding judges for appointments, as well as for presiding and alternate presiding judges of central counting station for appointments for the November General Election for state and county officers. (Secs. 32.002(a)(2), (c), 127.005(e)).

 Recommended date that party chairs in a county with a population of 500,000 or less submit to the county election board a list of names of eligible persons to serve on the early voting ballot board for the November General Election for state and county officers. (Sec. 87.002(c), (d)). NOTE: This is not a deadline; just a recommendation. 

 NOTE: Section 87.002 requires the early voting ballot board to have an alternate judge. The alternate judge is appointed in the same manner as the presiding judge.

 NOTE A signature verification committee may be appointed at a later date. (Sec. 87.027). For more information on the appointment procedures for election workers, see Election Workers Handbook (PDF) .

 Recommended date that county election officials and local political subdivisions meet to discuss conducting elections at the same polling locations pursuant to Sections 42.002 and 42.0621, as well as any applicable joint election issues needed to be agreed upon. NOTE: This is not a deadline; just a recommendation. 

 

 August

 
 August Term

 
 Counties with a Population of 500,000 or Less This is meant for counties that did not make two-year appointments in 2025, and will be making appointments in the August 2026 term. The commissioners court must appoint the election judges for each regular county election precinct, the presiding and alternate judge for the central counting station, and the presiding and alternate judge for the early voting ballot board at its August term in a county with a population of 500,000 or less. In counties with a population of 500,000 or less, the terms of the judges start on September 1, 2026. See entry for July 31, 2026 . See Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2026-19 for more information on appointment procedures.

 
 Saturday, August 1, 2026 – Thursday, October 1, 2026

 
 Recommended timeframe for the county election board in counties with a population of 500,000 or less to appoint the members to the early voting ballot board for the November General Election for state and county officers. (Sec. 87.002(c), (d)). Section 87.002(c) of the Election Code does not provide a deadline for the county election board to make such appointments. NOTE: This is not a deadline; just a recommendation. October 1 is the recommended deadline because of various notice requirements. 

 
 Recommended date that commissioners court in a county with a population of 500,000 or less appoint central counting station manager, tabulation supervisor, and assistants to the tabulation supervisor if it has established a central counting station. (Secs. 127.001, 127.002, 127.003, 127.004). NOTE: This is not a deadline; just a recommendation. 

 
 Wednesday, August 5, 2026 (90th day before Election Day) 

 Last day for eligible political subdivisions to submit Notice of Exemption Under Section 61.013 (PDF) or an Application of Undue Burden Status (PDF) to the Secretary of State for exemption from the accessible voting system requirement. (Sec. 61.013). For additional information, consult the most current advisory on this topic, Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2026-20 .

 
 NOTE - NEW LAW: HB 2253 (2025, R.S.) , effective immediately, allows the authority that ordered a bond measure to cancel the election on the measure by the 74th day before election day if the governor issues a disaster declaration by the 90th day before the date of the election on the measure. To do so, the authority must hold an open meeting on the question of cancelling the election and must post notice of the cancellation at each early voting location and each election day polling place.

 
 Friday, August 14, 2026 (81st day before Election Day, day before 2nd day before filing deadline)

 Political Subdivisions Other Than Counties : If a candidate dies on or before this date, his or her name is not placed on the ballot, if the filing deadline is Monday, August 17, 2026. (Sec. 145.094(a)(1)).

 
 NOTE: Section 145.098 provides that if a candidate dies on or before the deadline for filing an application for a place on the ballot, the authority responsible for preparing the ballots MAY choose to omit the candidate from the ballot. If the authority does choose to omit the candidate, the deadline for filing an application for a place on the ballot is extended to the fifth day after the filing deadline, Monday, August 24, 2026. This extended deadline only applies to the regular filing deadline. It DOES NOT apply to the write-in deadline. Because the extended deadline for filing an application for a place on the ballot falls on a weekend (Saturday, August 22, 2026), it is extended to the next regular business day, Monday, August 24, 2026. (Sec. 1.006).

 
 Monday, August 17, 2026 (78th day before Election Day) 

 Counties: 5:00 p.m. — Deadline to file as a write-in candidate for the November General Election for state and county officers. (Sec. 146.025(a)). A declaration of write-in candidacy filed by mail is considered to be filed at the time of its receipt by the appropriate authority. (Sec. 146.025(c)). See Write-In Candidates Guide. 

 Exception If a candidate whose name is to appear on the general election ballot dies or is declared ineligible after the third day before the date of the filing deadline above, a declaration of write-in candidacy for the office sought by the deceased or ineligible candidate may be filed not later than 5:00 p.m. of the 75th day before election day. See entry for August 20, 2026 . (Sec. 146.025(b)).

 
 Political Subdivisions Other Than Counties: 5:00 p.m. — Last day for a candidate in a political subdivision (other than a county) to file an application for a place on the ballot for general election for officers for most political subdivisions, except as otherwise provided by the Texas Election Code. (Secs. 143.007(c), 144.005(d), Election Code; Sec. 11.055, Education Code; Chapter 286, Health & Safety Code). See Candidacy Guide for Local Political Subdivisions for more details.  

 NOTE A home-rule city s charter may not provide an alternate candidate filing deadline. (Secs. 143.005(a), 143.007).

 NOTE : An application submitted by mail is considered to be filed at the time of its receipt by the appropriate filing authority. (Secs. 143.007(b), 144.005(b)).

 
 County Appraisal Districts in Counties with a Population of 75,000 or more: After the relevant part of SB 2 (2025, 2nd C.S.) became effective in July 2024, appraisal districts in counties with a population of 75,000 or more are governed by boards of nine directors. Under Tax Code Section 6.0301(c), a CAD board is made up of both appointed and elected directors. Five of the directors are appointed by the taxing units that participate in the district, while three directors are elected by majority vote of the voters in the county where the district operates. The elected directors are on the ballot at the general election for state and county officers (which happens in November of even years). All three elected CAD director positions will be on the ballot for the November 2026 election. 

 
 NOTE - NEW LAW: Pursuant toHB 3575 (2025, R.S.), effective immediately, CAD board candidates must file their application for a place on the ballot with the county clerk/elections administrator . Candidates can no longer file their application with the county judge.  Please see Running for County Appraisal Districts in 2026 . 

 NOTE – NEW LAW: Pursuant to HB 148 (2025, R.S.), effective September 1, 2025, an individual may not file an application for a place on the ballot for an elected position on the board of directors of an appraisal district unless the individual has signed the Acknowledgement of Duties of Member of Appraisal District Board of Directors (PDF) . The signed acknowledgement must be submitted to the chief appraiser of the appraisal district .

 
 Political Subdivisions Other Than Counties (General Election) : Deadline for political subdivisions to order a general election to be held on Tuesday, November 3, 2026. (Sec. 3.005). One of the following forms may be used:

 
 Order of Election for Municipalities (PDF) 

 Order of Election for Other Political Subdivisions (Including Schools) (PDF) 

 

 Political Subdivisions Other Than Counties (Special Election) Deadline to order a special election on a measure or a special election to fill a vacancy (if authorized to fill vacancies by special election) to be held on the date of the November General Election for state and county officers. An application may not be filed before the special election is ordered, and in addition to the information stated below, the order must state the filing deadline. (Secs. 201.051(b), 201.054(c), (d)). The following forms may be used:

 
 
 Order of Special Election for Municipalities (PDF) .

 Order of Special Election for Other Political Subdivisions (Including Schools) (PDF) 

 

 NOTE: For information regarding the requirements for certain ballot propositions and related procedures under Senate Bill 506 (2025, R.S.), please see Note 24 above and Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2026-06 .

 Counties Deadline for counties to order a general election or a special election on a measure to be held on Tuesday, November 3, 2026. (Secs. 3.004, 3.005). The following forms may be used:

 
 
 Order of Election for the November General Election (for County & Precinct Officers) (PDF) 

 Order of Special Election for County-Ordered Measure Elections (PDF) 

 

 The order must include:

 
 
 The date of the election;

 The offices or measures to be voted on;

 The location of the main early voting polling place, including the street address, room number, and building name. The order must designate which location is the main early voting polling place ;

 ( Recommended ) Branch early voting polling places ( see Note 11 , above);

 The dates and hours for early voting (recommended for counties, but required for all other entities);

 The dates and hours of any Saturday and Sunday early voting (if applicable, it is recommended that this information be included in the order for counties, but it must be included for all other entities); and

 The early voting clerk s official mailing address or street address at which the clerk may receive delivery by common or contract carrier, if different, phone number, e-mail address, and the Internet website, if the early voting clerk has an Internet website.

 

 In addition to the information included above, an order for a debt obligation (bond) election must include (Sec. 3.009):

 
 
 the proposition language that will appear on the ballot;

 the purpose for which the debt obligations are to be authorized;

 the principal amount of the debt obligations to be authorized;

 that taxes sufficient to pay the principal of and interest on the debt obligations may be imposed;

 a statement of the estimated tax rate if the debt obligations are authorized or of the maximum interest rate of the debt obligations or any series of the debt obligations, based on the market conditions at the time of the election order;

 the maximum maturity date of the debt obligations to be authorized or that the debt obligations may be issued to mature over a specified number of years not to exceed the maximum number of years authorized by law;

 the aggregate amount of the outstanding principal of the political subdivision's debt obligations as of the date the election is ordered;

 the aggregate amount of the outstanding interest on debt obligations of the political subdivision as of the date the election is ordered, which may be based on the political subdivision s expectations relative to variable debt obligations; and

 the ad valorem debt service tax rate for the political subdivision at the time the election is ordered, expressed as an amount per $100 valuation of taxable property.

 

 Recommended date to order the lists of registered voters from the county voter registrar. The list should include both the voters residences and mailing addresses in order to conduct early voting by mail. (Sec. 18.006). The political subdivision should confirm that the most recent maps or boundary changes have been provided to the voter registrar.

 
 Recommended date to confirm telephone number for the county voter registrar s office on election day.

 
 Recommended date to order election supplies, other than ballots. (Subchapter A, Chapter 51).

 Political Subdivisions Other Than Counties Recommended date to appoint presiding and alternate judges . Currently, the Election Code does not establish a deadline for appointing election officials; there is only a notification deadline. For further information concerning procedures for appointing judges and their alternates, see Sections 32.005, 32.008, and 32.011. General eligibility requirements are found in Subchapter C, Chapter 32. In addition to appointing a judge and alternate judge for each election precinct pursuant to Sections 32.001 and 32.005, the governing body must allow the judge to appoint no fewer than two clerks; however, the alternate judge must serve as one of the clerks as a matter of law. (Secs. 32.032, 32.033). The presiding judge then appoints an additional clerk(s), but not more than the maximum set by the governing body. (Sec. 32.033). Presiding judges and their alternates must be given a Notice of Appointment (PDF) not later than the 20th day after the appointment is made. (Sec. 32.009). If the appointment is for a single election, the notice may be combined with the Writ of Election (PDF) , which is required to be delivered to each presiding judge not later than the 15th day before the election, Monday, October 19, 2026. (Secs. 4.007, 32.009(e)). If the notices are combined, both must be delivered by the date required by the earlier notice.

 
 NOTE If you are conducting a joint election with the county, please be advised that the Election Code places many requirements on the method of selecting people who must be appointed by the county to work in the November General Election for state and county officers. See Sections 32.002 and 32.034, Election Code.

 
 Water Districts A water district is not required to provide a Notice of Appointment to a presiding judge, as required under Section 32.009, but must provide a Writ of Election (PDF) . (Sec. 4.007, Election Code; Sec. 49.110, Water Code).

 Recommended date to appoint the presiding judge and alternate judge of the early voting ballot board or to designate the election workers of one election precinct to serve as the early voting ballot board. (Secs. 87.001, 87.002, 87.004). There is no statutory notice requirement for members of the early voting ballot board, but good practice suggests that written notice be given to them.

 Recommended date to appoint the central counting station personnel (manager, tabulation supervisor and assistants to the tabulation supervisor), if applicable. (Secs. 127.002, 127.003, 127.004, 127.005). There is no statutory notice requirement for members of the central counting station, but good practice suggests that written notice be given to them.

 
 Thursday, August 20, 2026 (75th day before Election Day, 4th day before recommended ballot drawing date) 

 First day to post Notice of Drawing for Place on Ballot (PDF) if drawing is to be conducted on Monday, August 24, 2026. This notice must be posted for 72 hours immediately preceding the time of the drawing. (Sec. 52.094(c)).

 
 The authority conducting the ballot position drawing shall provide notice of the date, hour, and place of the drawing to candidates by this date if the drawing is to be conducted on Monday, August 24, 2026, as recommended. (Sec. 52.094(d)). If a candidate in a special election files on this date, they should be given a copy of the notice at the time they file.

 The authority conducting the drawing shall provide notice of the date, hour, and place of the drawing to each candidate. The authority may provide written notice at the time the candidate files an application with the appropriate authority.

 If notice was not provided at the time the candidate filed an application, the notice may be provided by:

 
 
 written notice that is mailed to the address stated on the candidate s application not later than

 the fourth day before the date of the drawing; or

 telephone, if a telephone number is provided on the candidate s application; or

 by e-mail, if an e-mail address was provided on the candidate s application. (Sec. 52.094).

 

 Political Subdivisions Other Than Counties: 6:00 p.m. — Last day to file an application for a place on the ballot or a Declaration of Write-In Candidacy (PDF) in a special election to fill a vacancy to be held on the date of the November General Election for state and county officers. (Sec. 201.054(f), (g)). NOTE: For future reference, please note that this deadline is not the same for elections held on the May uniform election date or on the November uniform election date in an odd-numbered year.

 Friday, August 21, 2026 (74th day before Election Day)

 
 Counties : Deadline for a party nominee or independent candidate in the November General Election for state and county officers to withdraw from the election. (Secs. 145.032, 145.062).

 
 Counties : Last day on which death, declaration of ineligibility, or withdrawal of a party nominee or an independent candidate for the November General Election for state and county officers causes an omission of the candidate s name from the ballot. (Secs. 145.035, 145.039, 145.064, 145.065). For certain exceptions regarding deceased candidates, please see Section 145.064(b)).

 NOTE : A withdrawal request submitted by mail must be received by appropriate authority by this date. (Sec. 145.001(c)). A withdrawal request must also be sworn to, and candidates may use the Certificate of Withdrawal (PDF) . (Sec. 145.001(b)).

 
 If a vacancy occurs on or before this date in a state, district, or county office not regularly scheduled for election in 2026, due to death , resignation , or removal of the officeholder, the unexpired term of the office shall be placed on the November 3, 2026 election ballot. (Sec. 202.002(a)). An appointment to fill the vacancy continues until the next general election and until a successor has been elected and has qualified for the office. Also, depending on the effective date of the vacancy, the office may also be voted on in the next primary election. (Secs. 202.002(b), 202.004). See Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2025- 14 .

 
 Political Subdivisions Other Than Counties: 5:00 p.m . — Deadline for write-in candidates to file Declarations of Write-In Candidacy (PDF) for regular officers for city, school district, library district, junior college district, hospital district, common school districts, Chapter 36 and 49 Water Code districts, and other political subdivision elections, unless otherwise provided by law. (Secs. 144.006(b), 146.054(b), 146.055, Election Code; Secs. 11.056, 11.304, 130.0825, Education Code; Secs. 326.0431, 326.0432, Local Government Code; Sec. 285.131, Health and Safety Code; Secs. 36.059, 49.101, 63.0945, Water Code). See Candidacy Filing outline and Local Candidates Guide for more information.

 
 NOTE : An application submitted by mail is considered to be filed at the time of its receipt by the appropriate filing authority. (Secs. 143.007(b), 144.005(b)).

 
 Political Subdivisions Other Than Counties If you plan on holding your ballot position drawing on Monday, August 24, 2026, then the Notice of Drawing for Place on Ballot (PDF) of such drawing should be posted today. The notice must be posted for 72 hours immediately preceding the time of the drawing. (Sec. 52.094(c)).

 NOTE :  Last day an entity may cancel a bond measure if the Governor issues a disaster declaration regarding a natural disaster or other disaster which threatens the health, safety, or general welfare of the authority s residents within 90 days of the date of the election. See entry at August 5, 2026 for more information. 

 
 Monday, August 24, 2026 (71st day before Election Day)

 
 Political Subdivisions Other Than Counties The Elections Division recommends that you hold your ballot position drawing no later than today to determine the order of candidates names on the ballot (Sec. 52.094).  We also recommend that you certify to the county election officer the offices, propositions (in all necessary languages), and candidates names (including the order) as they are to appear on the ballot, as soon as possible after the drawing has been conducted, if you are contracting to have the county conduct your election or if you are conducting a joint election with the county.

 
 NOTE After the ballot drawing has occurred, the Elections Division recommends that you proof and test your ballot programming as soon as possible and prior to the deadline to mail a ballot if the political subdivision will be using automatic tabulating equipment to count the mail ballots or if your mail ballots are printed from the same database used to program your precinct scanners ( See Note 15 above). The Elections Division also recommends that you provide candidates with copies of ballot proofs so that candidates may verify the correctness of their names, positions sought, and order of names on the ballot. 

 NOTE Ballot position for the November General Election for state and county officers is determined by Sections 52.091 and 52.092, Election Code.

 Political Subdivisions Other Than Counties: 5:00 p.m . — Last day for a candidate to withdraw from a general election, by submission of a notarized Certificate of Withdrawal (PDF) or a notarized letter, or to be declared ineligible. If a candidate withdraws or is declared ineligible by this date, his or her name is omitted from the ballot . (Secs. 146.054(c), 145.092(f), 145.094(a)(4)), 145.096(a)(4)).

 
 NOTE: Section 145.098 provides that if a candidate dies on or before the deadline for filing an application for a place on the ballot, the authority responsible for preparing the ballots MAY choose to omit the candidate from the ballot. If the authority does choose to omit the candidate, the deadline for filing an application for a place on the ballot is extended to the fifth day after the filing deadline, Monday, August 24, 2026. This extended deadline only applies to the regular filing deadline. It DOES NOT apply to the write-in deadline.

 
 Counties and Other Political Subdivisions 5:00 p.m . — Last day to withdraw as a write-in candidate in the general election for state and county officers, or a general or special election ordered by a political subdivision other than a county, (Secs. 144.006(c), 146.0301, 146.054(c)). Candidates may use the Certificate of Withdrawal (PDF) .

 Political Subdivisions Other Than Counties Recommended first day that a general or special election must be cancelled if all filing deadlines have passed, each candidate for an office listed on the ballot is unopposed (except as discussed below), and write-in votes may be counted only for names appearing on a list of write-in candidates. The Certification of Unopposed Candidates for Other Political Subdivisions (PDF) may be used to certify candidates as unopposed. Also, see our Sample Order of Cancellation (PDF) .

 
 A special election of a political subdivision is considered to be a separate election with a separate ballot from a general election for officers of the same political subdivision held at the same time as the special election. Therefore, the fact that there may be a proposition on the ballot will not prevent a cancellation of an election for candidates who are unopposed. (Sec. 2.051(a)). If any members of the political subdivision s governing body are elected from territorial units, such as single member districts, an election may be cancelled in a particular territorial unit if each candidate for an office that is to appear on the ballot in that territorial unit is unopposed and no opposed at-large race is to appear on the ballot. An unopposed at-large race may be cancelled in an election regardless of whether an opposed race is to appear on the ballot in a particular territorial unit. (Sec. 2.051(b)). This recommended cancellation deadline considers a regular filing deadline of Monday, August 17, 2026, a special election filing deadline of Thursday, August 20, 2026, and a write-in deadline of Friday, August 21, 2026. For additional information, consult the outline on Cancellation of Election for Local Political Subdivisions .

 
 Water Districts A water district is not required to provide a Notice of Appointment to a presiding judge, as required under Section 32.009, but must provide a Writ of Election (PDF) . (Sec. 4.007, Election Code; Sec. 49.110, Water Code).

 
 Tuesday, August 25, 2026 (70th day before Election Day, 5th day after special election candidate filing deadlines) 

 
 Political Subdivisions Other Than Counties: 5:00 p.m. — Last day for a candidate (place on the ballot or write-in) to withdraw from a special election, by submission of a notarized Certificate of Withdrawal (PDF) or a notarized letter, or to be declared ineligible. If a candidate withdraws or is declared ineligible by this date, his or her name is omitted from the ballot . (Sec. 145.092(e)).

 
 Legislative Vacancies (if applicable) Last day for all candidates (including write-in candidates) to withdraw from a special election to fill a legislative vacancy (if any). (Secs. 146.083, 145.092(a)).

 
 Thursday, August 27, 2026 (State Holiday – LBJ Birthday) (68th day before Election Day)

 

 Friday, August 28, 2026 (67th day before Election Day)

 Deadline for Secretary of State (federal, state and district offices) and county judge (countywide and precinct offices) to certify names of independent and declared write-in candidates to county election officer for placement on the November 3, 2026 ballot. (Secs. 142.010, 146.029(c)).

 
 
 Certification of Independent Candidates by County Judge [PDF] 

 Certificate of Write‑in Candidacy (For County and Precinct Offices) [PDF] 

 

 Deadline for Secretary of State to certify to county election officer names of party nominees for statewide and district offices for placement on November 3, 2026 ballot, and deadline for Secretary of State to post major party nominees for county and precinct offices. (Secs. 161.008, 172.117).

 
 *The deadlines referenced above are extended to the next regular business day which is Friday, August 28, 2026 due to the deadline falling on Thursday, August 27, 2026, a state holiday, LBJ Birthday. (Sec. 1.006).

 

 September

 Friday, September 4, 2026 (60th day before Election Day)

 
 Political Subdivisions Other Than Counties: Last day for the governing body of a political subdivision to deliver notice of the election to the county election officer and voter registrar of each county in which the political subdivision is wholly or partly located. (Sec. 4.008).

 
 NOTE: Section 4.003 requires that counties post on the county website the notice and list of polling locations of any political subdivision that delivers their notice to the county under 4.008. This is regardless of whether the county is contracting with the entity. See Note 8 for more information on the requirements related to Notice of Election.

 
 NOTE: Section 4.004 requires the notice of election to include the Internet website of the authority conducting the election.

 
 NOTE: Section 83.010 requires an election order and the election notice to state the early voting clerk s official mailing address or street address at which the clerk may receive delivery by common or contract carrier, if different, phone number, e-mail address, and the Internet website, if the early voting clerk has an Internet website. (Sec. 83.010).

 
 Recommended date for county clerk/county elections administrator to deliver an initial list of voters who have submitted annual applications for ballot by mail under Section 86.0015 and scans or photocopies of those applications to the early voting clerk of any political subdivision located within the county that is holding an election on November 3, 2026. The list should only include voters that reside in the political subdivision holding the election. The list should only be created and sent to those political subdivisions that have provided notice of the election to the county clerk/elections administrator. See also , the note below and the entry at Friday, October 23, 2026 for more information about delivery of a final list of voters. See entry for Thursday, October 22, 2026 and entry for Saturday, October 31, 2026 for more information on the delivery of copies/images of the applications.

 
 NOTE:  Section 86.0015 requires the county clerk/elections administrator to provide a list of voters that have submitted an annual application for ballot by mail to all political subdivisions in their county holding an election. The law only applies to elections for which the county clerk/elections administrator is not the early voting clerk via a contract for election services or joint election agreement. The Elections Division strongly recommends that the county and political subdivisions discuss the frequency and method for which these lists should be transmitted to ensure that ballots are sent out timely. Finally, the county clerk/elections administrator must deliver either photocopies or scanned images of the applications (under Section 87.126) to the early voting clerk of the political subdivision before the ballots by mail are delivered to the early voting ballot board for qualifying and counting under Section 87.041.

 
 Monday, September 7, 2026 (57th day before Election Day) (Labor Day)

 

 
 Tuesday, September 8, 2026 (22nd day after August 17, 2026)

 
 Political Subdivisions Other Than Counties : Last day to notify election judges of their appointment if they were appointed, as recommended, on Monday, August 17, 2026 . (Secs. 1.006, 32.009(b)). Presiding and alternate judges must be notified (PDF) of their appointment in writing, not later than the 20th day after the date the appointment is made. The deadline is extended to the next regular business day which is Tuesday, September 8, 2026 due to the 20th day falling on Sunday, September 6, 2026, and the next day falling on Labor Day, September 7, 2026. 

 
 The notice of the judge s duty to conduct the election (Writ of Election (PDF)) pursuant to Section 4.007 may be combined with the above notice, if the appointment is for a single election only. If the notices are NOT combined, then the notice of the judge s duty to conduct the election (writ of election) must be delivered not later than the 15th day before election day, Monday, October 19, 2026.

 
 Monday, September 14, 2026 (50th day before Election Day; 29th day before early voting begins)

 
 Deadline to challenge the filing of an application for a place on the ballot as to form, content, and procedure. (Sec. 141.034).

 
 Last day for county chairs to supplement the list of names for early voting officer list. (Secs. 1.006, 85.009). 

 
 NOTE – NEW LAW: SB 2166 (2025, R.S.) - Last day to post notice for public L&A test and tabulation testing. The tests must be conducted on the 48th day before election day, which is Wednesday, September 16, 2026. Notice of the public tests must be posted on the entity s website at least 48 hours before the test begins. (Secs. 127.093, 127.096, 129.001, 129.022, 129.023). See Note 15 above.

 
 NOTE – NEW LAW : SB 2166 (2025, R.S.) - Entities are no longer required to publish notice of the L&A and tabulation tests in newspapers. Notice must be posted on the entity s website.

 
 Monday, September 14, 2026 - Sunday, December 13, 2026 (50th day before Election Day through 40th day after Election Day) 

 
 Mandatory Office Hours : Each county clerk, city secretary or secretary of a governing body (or the person performing duties of a secretary) must keep the office open for election duties for at least 3 hours each day, during regular office hours, on regular business days. (Sec. 31.122).

 
 NOTE – NEW LAW: HB 640 (2025, R.S.) , effective September 1, 2025, amended Section 31.122 to require counties, cities, or other political subdivisions to keep their election offices open for election duties on regular business days when the county, city, or political subdivision is regularly open for business. A regular business day means a day on which the political subdivision s main business office is regularly open for business. (Sec. 31.122(b)).

 
 NOTE: Special Elections : In the case of a special election, the office hour rule is triggered starting the third day after the special election is ordered. (Sec. 31.122).

 
 NOTE: Section 31.096 of the Code addresses nontransferable functions under an election services contract. Specifically, an election services contract may not change the political subdivision s requirement to maintain office hours under Section 31.122. (Sec. 31.096).  See NOTE on mandatory office hours .

 
 Wednesday, September 16, 2026 (48th day before Election Day)

 NOTE – NEW LAW: SB 2166 (2025, R.S.) clarifies the requirements for the Public L&A test and tabulation testing by requiring them to be conducted at the same time and by distinguishing the testing procedures for precinct scanners from the testing procedures for central accumulators. The bill also harmonizes the notice requirements for both tests and requires the testing to be performed by the 48th day before election day. 

 
 The initial public testing of your electronic voting equipment must be completed no later than the 48th day before election day. However, if the test cannot be conducted by the 48th day deadline, then the general custodian shall conduct the test as soon as practicable after that date and must notify the Secretary of State s Office within 24 hours of the determination that the deadline cannot be met. See Note 15 . 

 
 Saturday, September 19, 2026 (45th day before Election Day)

 
 Deadline to mail ballots to military or overseas voters who already submitted their ballot requests via a federal postcard application (FPCA) or via a standard application for ballot by mail (ABBM) and indicated that they are outside the United States. Ballots must be mailed by this date or the 7th day after the clerk receives the application. If the early voting clerk cannot meet this 45th-day deadline, the clerk must notify the Secretary of State within 24 hours. (Sec. 86.004(b)).

 
 NOTE: The 45th Day deadline under Section 86.004(b) is not extended by Section 1.006 to the next business day. The ballots covered by Section 86.004(b) should be sent out on or before Saturday, September 19, 2026. 

 
 NOTE: An FPCA may be submitted by in-person delivery by the voter in accordance with Section 84.008 of the Code or by common or contract carrier. Further, an application is considered submitted in the following calendar year if: 1) the applicant is eligible to vote in an election occurring in January or February of the next calendar year; and 2) the application is submitted in the last 60 days of a calendar year but not earlier than the 60th day before the date of the January or February election. (Sec. 101.052).

 
 NOTE: A member of the Texas National Guard or the National Guard of another state or a member of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States serving on active duty under an order of the President of the United States or activated on state orders, or the spouse or dependent of a member, may submit an FPCA. (Sec. 101.001).

 
 Reminder Regarding FPCAs and Overseas ABBMs: If the early voting clerk receives an FPCA (from a military or non-military voter) after the 45th day deadline, then the ballot must be mailed within seven days after the early voting clerk receives the FPCA. (Secs. 86.004(b), 101.104).

 
 Reminder: For mail ballots for other voters (not military voters using an FPCA or overseas voters using an FPCA or ABBM), the early voting clerk must mail a ballot not later than the 7th day after the later of: (1) the date the early voting clerk has accepted a voter s application for a ballot by mail or (2) the date the ballots become available for mailing. But if the 7th day is before the 37th day before election day, the voter s mail ballot must be mailed no later than the 30th day before election day. (Sec. 86.004(a)). This means that for every application that comes in before the 37th day before election day, the balloting materials must be mailed by the 30th day before election day. Any application that comes in after the 37th day before election day will follow the 7-day timeline in Sec. 86.004.

 
 NOTE: Information on the early voting roster for both early voting in person and early voting by mail must be made available for public inspection and on the county s website if the county clerk or elections administrator is serving as the early voting clerk. (Sec. 87.121). See Note 23. 

 Monday, September 28, 2026 (36th day before Election Day)

 
 Deadline for the Secretary of State to mail each county judge a copy of the Governor s proclamation ordering the November General Election for state and county officers. (Sec. 3.003(c)).

 October

 Thursday, October 1, 2026 (33rd day before Election Day)

 Counties : Deadline to receive a petition signed by 15 registered voters by the early voting clerk requesting that a signature verification committee be created. A request submitted by mail is considered to be submitted at the time of its receipt by the early voting clerk. (Sec. 87.027(a-1)).

 Friday, October 2, 2026 (32nd day before Election Day)

 
 Recommended date for early voting clerk to issue order (PDF) calling for appointment of signature verification committee, if one is to be established. (Sec. 87.027).

 NOTE: If the signature verification committee will start meeting on Wednesday, October 14, 2026, the early voting clerk must post a copy of the order (PDF) calling for appointment of the signature verification committee on or before this date as the notice must remain posted continuously for at least 10 days before the first day the committee meets. (Sec. 87.027(g)). This notice must be posted on the entity s website if the entity maintains a website.

 Sunday, October 4, 2026 (30th day before Election Day)

 First day of period during which notice of election must be published if another method of giving notice is not specified by a law outside the Election Code , and publication is the method of giving notice selected. (Sec. 4.003(a)(1)). The notice for elections ordered by a county or by an authority of a city or school district must be given by publication in a newspaper in addition to any other method specified by a law outside the Election Code. (Sec. 4.003(c), (d)). This notice may be combined with the other notices you are required to publish. See Note 8. 

 Cities, Schools, and Other Political Subdivisions: It is strongly recommended that the Notice of Voting Order Priority (PDF) for voters with mobility issues also be posted on the subdivision s website, if one is maintained by the political subdivision. (Secs. 63.0015, 85.007(d)). For more information on this requirement, see Note 16. 

 Counties: The recommended time to include this notice on a county website is when the notice of election is also posted on the website. (Secs. 63.0015, 85.007(d)).

 NOTE: Notice of Change to Polling Place Location: For elections ordered by the governor or county judge only , if the location of the polling place changes after notice has been given under Section 4.003, and the county election officer maintains a website to inform voters about elections, the notice of the change must be posted on the website ( see Notice of Change to Polling Place (PDF)) . The notice on the website must be given not later than the earlier of: (1) 24 hours after the location was changed; or (2) 72 hours before the polls open on election day. (Sec. 43.061).

 NOTE: Notice of Previous Polling Place: If a different polling place is being used than at the previous election held by the same authority, the Notice of Change to Polling Place (PDF) must be posted at the entrance of the previous polling place informing voters of the current polling place location, if possible. (Sec. 43.062).

 Monday, October 5, 2026 (29th day before Election Day)

 Last day to register to vote for the Tuesday, November 3, 2026 election. The deadline is extended to the next regular business day, which is Monday, October 5, 2026, because the 30th day is Sunday, October 4, 2026. (Secs. 1.006, 13.143(e), 15.025).

 NOTE : A voter who submits a change of address after this date may still be eligible to return to his or her previous precinct to vote under fail-safe voting, if he or she still resides in the same county and the same local political subdivision, if applicable, conducting the election. If a voter has moved to a new county, then a voter can vote a limited ballot. Voting by a limited ballot is only available during the early voting period and only at the main early voting polling place (or by mail). (Secs. 15.025, 63.0011, 112.002).

 NOTE: A Federal Postcard Application (FPCA) also serves as an application for permanent registration under Texas law unless the voter marked my intent to return is uncertain using the FPCA form (PDF) . The early voting clerk should make a copy (for mailing ballots, keeping records, etc.), then should forward the original to the county voter registrar, as soon as practicable. (Sec. 101.055; 1 T.A.C. § 81.40(a), (c)(2)).

 Recommended last day for early voting clerk to coordinate with the voter registrar receipt of supplemental and registration correction lists, if applicable, or coordinate receipt of the revised original list from the voter registrar for early voting by personal appearance. (Secs. 18.001, 18.002, 18.003, 18.004).

 NOTE: In regards to mail ballots for other voters (not military voters using an FPCA or overseas voters using an FPCA or ABBM), the early voting clerk must mail a ballot not later than the 7th day after the later of: (1) the date the early voting clerk has accepted a voter s application for a ballot by mail or (2) the date the ballots become available for mailing. However, if the 7th day falls earlier than the 37th day before election day (Sunday, September 27, 2026), the voter s mail ballot must be mailed no later than the 30th day (Sunday, October 4, 2026) before election day. (Sec. 86.004(a)). This means that for every application that is accepted by the early voting clerk before the 37th day before election day, the balloting materials must be mailed by the 30th day before election day. Any application that comes in after the 37th day before election day will follow the 7-day timeline in Section 86.004.

 Wednesday, October 7, 2026 (27th day before Election Day)

 
 Recommended last date for the county elections board to appoint (PDF) a signature verification committee (if one was ordered not later than Friday, October 2, 2026 at the discretion of the county election officer and not required due to petition by 15 registered voters. The members must be appointed not later than the fifth day after the order was issued by the early voting clerk. The county elections board must post a notice of the appointment of committee members continuously until the last day the signature verification committee meets. (Sec. 87.027). This form may be used for the notice: Notice of Appointment of Signature Verification Committee (PDF) .

 NOTE: Section 51.002 requires notice of a meeting of the county election board to be posted not later than 48 hours before each meeting. The county clerk shall post notice of the meeting on the county s website, if the county maintains one.

 Friday, October 9, 2026 (25th day before Election Day)

 Counties : Deadline for Democratic and Republican County Chairs to submit to the precinct presiding judges for each election day precinct, a list containing at least two persons who are eligible to serve as election clerks, in order to secure appointment of clerks affiliated or aligned with their respective parties. (Sec. 32.034(b)).

 Monday, October 12, 2026 (Columbus Day/Indigenous Peoples Day)

 

 Tuesday, October 13, 2026 (21st day before Election Day)

 Last day to post notice of election required to be used for posting notices of meetings of governing body. (Sec. 4.003(b)). A Record of Posting Notice of Election (PDF) should be completed at the time of posting. (Sec. 4.005). See Note on Notice of Elections. 

 NOTE: Section 51.002 requires notice of a meeting of the county election board to be posted not later than 48 hours before each meeting. The county clerk shall post notice of the meeting on the county s website, if the county maintains one.

 Last day to post notice of election in each election precinct, if the method of giving notice is not specified by a law outside the Election Code and notice is given by this method in lieu of publication (extended deadline). (Sec. 4.003(a)(2)). The notice for elections ordered by the governor, a county authority, or by an authority of a city or school district must be given by publication in a newspaper in addition to any other method specified by a law outside the Election Code. (Sec. 4.003(a)(1), (c), (d)). A Record of Posting Notice of Election (PDF) should be completed at the time of posting. (Sec. 4.005).

 All Political Subdivisions: The election notice shall be posted on the political subdivision s website, if the political subdivision maintains a website. The order and notice should include all days and hours for early voting by personal appearance including voting on ANY Saturday or Sunday. (Secs. 85.006, 85.007). Note for cities and counties , the election notice must be subsequently amended to include voting later ordered for ANY Saturday or Sunday and must be posted on the political subdivision s website, if maintained.

 Note for Counties - Section 4.003 requires that counties post on the county website the notice and list of polling locations of any political subdivision that delivers their notice to the county under Section 4.008. This is regardless of whether the county is contracting with the entity and regardless of whether the entity is conducting their own election or contracting with the county.

 For Bond Elections : First day a political subdivision must post on their Internet website prominently and together with the notice of the election, a copy of the sample ballot, and the contents of the proposition, if the political subdivision maintains an Internet website. (Sec. 4.003(f)).

 The recommended time to include the notice of accepting voters with certain disabilities on a county website is when the notice of election is also posted on the website. (Secs. 63.0013, 85.007(d)).  See Note 16 regarding notice on accepting voters with certain disabilities.

 Counties, Cities, and School Districts: Last day for a county that holds an election or provides election services for an election to post certain information regarding the upcoming election(s) on the county s website per Section 4.009. A city or independent school district that holds an election and maintains an Internet website must also post this same election information on their website even if the county is also posting this data. See Note 3 for more information.

 Wednesday, October 14, 2026 (20th day before Election Day)

 First day that the signature verification committee, if one is appointed, may begin operating. (Sec. 87.027).

 NOTE: In counties with a population of 100,000 or more, the general custodian of election records shall implement a live-stream video surveillance system that retains a record of all areas containing voted ballots from the time the voted ballots are delivered to the central counting station, the signature verification committee, or early voting ballot board until the canvass of precinct election returns. (Sec. 127.1232). For more information, see Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2022-10 .

 Signature Verification Committee (if appointed) Actions for a Defective Carrier Envelope : For information on corrective action procedures, see Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2023-13. 

 Last day to post notice (PDF) of places, days, and hours for voting at branch early voting polling place if voting is to begin at that location on the first day of early voting in person. The schedule may be amended after the beginning of early voting by personal appearance to include notice of additional branch locations, but any amendment must be made and posted not later than the fifth day before voting begins at the additional temporary branch. (Secs. 85.062, 85.067(c), (d)).

 NOTE - NEW LAW: HB 3526 (2025, R.S.) , effective September 1, 2025, creates new reporting requirements for local entities that order an election to authorize a local government to issue bonds. These reports must be sent to the Texas Bond Review Board . Not later than the 20th day before election day for an election to authorize a local government to issue bonds, the local government shall send the Bond Review Board a report that includes:

 
 the date of the election;

 the proposition number for each bond proposition;

 the total estimated cost of the issuance of each proposed bond;

 the estimated minimum dollar amount required to be annually expended for debt service;

 a description of the purpose of each bond proposition; and

 any other information the board determines necessary.

 

 For more information on this requirement, please contact the Texas Bond Review Board .

 NOTE:  Deadline for a person who is not permanently registered to vote to submit a postmarked FPCA in order to receive a ballot for any non-federal election held on November 3, 2026. A person who is not permanently registered to vote and submits a postmarked FPCA after this date (20th day) and before the deadline to submit an application for ballot by mail is not entitled to receive a ballot for any non-federal election. See Monday, October 19, 2026 entry for timeliness of an FPCA received without a postmark (extended deadline). (Sec. 101.052(e)). See Note 17 for more information on means of submitting FPCAs.

 NOTE:  Be sure to check the list of registered voters for permanent registration status. Also, state law authorizes an FPCA to serve as an application for permanent registration ; therefore, the person might be permanently registered based on a prior FPCA. Even if the FPCA arrives too late for a particular election, the early voting clerk will still need to forward the original FPCA to the county voter registrar, after making a copy for your early voting clerk s use (mailing ballots, etc.) and records unless the voter marked my intent to return is uncertain using the FPCA form (PDF) . (Sec. 101.055; 1 T.A.C. § 81.40).

 NOTE:  Overseas (non-military) voters marking the FPCA my intent to return is uncertain using the FPCA form (PDF) receive a federal ballot only regardless of the date filed. (Chapter 114). In a local (non-federal) election, this means there is no ballot to send the voter. 

 NOTE – NEW LAW: SB 2166 (2025, R.S.) - Last day to post notice (PDF) of L&A test for electronic pollbooks if test will be held on Friday, October 16, 2026. Notice of the L&A Test must be posted on the entity s website at least 48 hours before the test begins. (Sec. 129.0231). See Note 15 above.

 Thursday, October 15, 2026 – Friday, October 23, 2026 (19th day before Election Day - 11th day before Election Day) 

 A person submitting an FPCA (PDF) during this period who is not registered to vote is not entitled to receive a ballot for any non-federal election held on Tuesday, November 3, 2026. This means that a person submitting an FPCA during this period is entitled to receive a federal ballot only if they are not already a permanent registered voter. (Secs. 101.052(f), 114.002, 114.004). In a local election (where there is no federal office on the ballot), this means there is no ballot to send the voter. 

 The early voting clerk is required to maintain a copy of this application since it may be used for other elections and forward the original to the voter registrar. Also see entry below under Monday, October 19, 2026 (FPCA without a postmark). (Secs. 84.007, 101.052(e), (f)).

 NOTE:  Be sure to check the list of registered voters for permanent registration status. Also, state law authorizes an FPCA to also serve as an application for permanent registration ; therefore, the person might be permanently registered based on a prior FPCA. Even if the FPCA arrives too late for a particular election, the early voting clerk will still need to forward the original FPCA to the county voter registrar after making a copy for your early voting clerk s use (mailing ballots, etc.) and records, except for overseas (non-military) voters marking the FPCA my intent to return is uncertain using the FPCA form (PDF) , in which case it will not serve as a permanent registration. (Sec. 101.055; 1 T.A.C. § 81.40). These voters receive a federal ballot only regardless of the date filed. (Chapter 114). In a local (non-federal) election, this means there is no ballot to send the voter. 

 Friday, October 16, 2026 (18th day before Election Day)

 NOTE: NEW LAW: SB 2166 (2025, R.S.) ,effective September 1, 2025, requires the general custodian of election records to perform logic and accuracy testing for electronic pollbook systems for each election. The test must be conducted at least 48 hours before voting begins in an election. (Sec. 129.023). ( See Note 15 , above).

 NOTE:  The general custodian of election records is required to demonstrate, using a representative sample of voting system equipment, that the source code of the equipment has not been altered. (Sec. 129.023(c-1)). See Note 15 above for definition of representative sample.  See Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2019-23 and Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2022-30 for more information on hash validation and voting system procedures.

 Monday, October 19, 2026 (15th day before Election Day)

 

 First day to vote early in person. (Sec. 85.001)

 NOTE: The early voting period for elections held on the November uniform election date begins 17 days prior to election day, but because this day falls on a weekend (Saturday, October 17, 2026), it is extended to the next regular business day (Monday) under Section 85.001(c). See Note 22 on Early Voting Rosters. 

 NOTE: Voting by limited ballot must be done during the early voting period at the main early voting polling place (or by mail). (Sec. 112.002(a)).

 NOTE - Counties : Early voting in person at the main early voting polling place must be conducted on each weekday of the early voting period that is not a legal state holiday and for a period of at least nine (9) hours, except that voting may not be conducted earlier than 6:00 AM or later than 10:00 PM. (Sec. 85.005(a)).

 NOTE: Section 85.064 establishes uniform early voting requirements for all counties regardless of population size. Any established temporary branch location must remain open for at least 8 hours on each of the days that voting is required to be conducted at the main early voting location.

 NOTE: Political Subdivisions Other than Counties : Early voting in person must be conducted at least nine (9) hours each weekday that is not a legal state holiday unless the political subdivision has fewer than 1,000 registered voters, in which case early voting in person must be conducted at least four (4) hours per day. (Sec. 85.005(b)). This rule only applies to the main early voting location. If entities are conducting early voting by personal appearance jointly, see Note 7 regarding joint elections generally.

 NOTE: Cities are not required to choose two weekdays for the main early voting polling place location to be open for at least 12 hours during the regular early voting period. (Sec. 85.005).

 NOTE: For other local political subdivisions that do not have a city or county election officer serving as the early voting clerk, and which have fewer than 1,000 registered voters, any established temporary branch location must remain open for at least 3 hours on each of the days that voting is required to be conducted at the main early voting location. See Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2023-10 . 

 NOTE: Independent School Districts: Despite the change in state law that allows an ISD to be closed on school holidays during the mandatory office hours period, you are required to be open during the entire early voting period, except on legal state and national holidays. (Sec. 85.005(b)).

 NOTE: Joint Elections : If entities are conducting early voting by personal appearance jointly, we recommend a unified schedule covering all requirements; i.e., no entity s requirements should be neglected or subtracted as a result of a joint agreement. See Note 7 regarding joint elections generally.

 Deadline to receive an FPCA without a postmark. If an FPCA is received by this date without a postmark to prove mailing date, the early voting clerk will accept the FPCA and mail the applicant a full ballot even if the applicant is not a permanently registered voter but meets the requirements under Title 2 of the Election Code, unless the voter marks the FPCA form (PDF) my intent to return is uncertain, in which case the voter receives a federal-only ballot. (Sec. 101.052(i)(1)).

 Last day to notify election judges of duty to hold election ( Writ of Election (PDF ). Notice must be given by the 15th day before the election or the 7th day after the day the election is ordered, whichever is later. The Writ of Election must be given to each presiding judge and include:

 
 The judge s duty to hold the election;

 The type and date of election;

 The polling place location at which the judge will serve;

 The polling place hours; and

 The maximum number of clerks the judge may appoint. (Sec. 4.007).

 

 Wednesday, October 21, 2026 (13th day before Election Day; 72 hours preceding first hour Saturday early voting will be conducted) 

 
 Deadline to post notice (PDF) of Saturday early voting on county website. The notice must be posted continuously for at least 72 hours preceding the first hour that early voting on Saturday, October 24, 2026 will be conducted. (Sec. 85.007(b), (c)).

 
 In counties with a population of 100,000 or more, deadline to post notice of Saturday early voting at any required temporary branch locations (created under Section 85.062(d) of the Texas Election Code). The notice must be posted continuously for at least 72 hours preceding the first hour that early voting on Saturday, October 24, 2026 will be conducted. (Secs. 85.006(e), 85.007(c), 85.062(d), 85.064(d), 85.068).

 
 NOTE - All Political Subdivisions, Except Counties: Voting on any Saturday or Sunday must be included in the order and notice of election. City secretaries no longer have the authority to order Saturday or Sunday early voting 72 hours immediately preceding the first hour that voting will be conducted. Local political subdivisions must have early voting on Saturday or Sunday, if a written request (PDF) is received from at least 15 registered voters of the political subdivision prior to the election being ordered. (Secs. 85.006, 85.007).

 
 Thursday, October 22, 2026 (12th day before Election Day; day before the last day to apply for a ballot by mail) 

 
 Deadline to post notice (PDF) of Sunday early voting on county website. The notice must be posted continuously for at least 72 hours preceding the first hour that early voting on Sunday, October 25, 2026 will be conducted. (Sec. 85.007(b), (c)).

 
 In counties with a population of 100,000 or more, deadline to post notice of Sunday early voting at any required temporary branch locations (created under Section 85.062(d) of the Texas Election Code). The notice must be posted continuously for at least 72 hours preceding the first hour that early voting on Sunday, October 25, 2026 will be conducted. (Secs. 85.006(e), 85.007(c), 85.062(d), 85.064(d), 85.068).

 
 First day a voter who becomes sick or disabled on or after Thursday, October 22, 2026, may submit an application for a late ballot if the sickness or physical condition prevents the voter from appearing at the polling place without the likelihood of needing personal assistance or of injuring his or her health. (Sec. 102.001). See Application for Emergency Early Voting Ballot Due to Sickness or Physical Disability (PDF) . Applications may continue to be submitted until 5:00 p.m. on election day. (Sec. 102.003). For more information, see VoteTexas.gov .

 
 NOTE: The county clerk/elections administrator must ensure that photocopies or electronic recordings of annual applications for ballot by mail have been delivered to the early voting clerk of every political subdivision holding an election before the ballots by mail are delivered to the early voting ballot board.

 
 Friday, October 23, 2026 (11th day before Election Day) 

 
 Last day to receive an FPCA (PDF) from a voter. If the voter is not registered in the county (and/or marked intent to return uncertain ), the voter is still eligible for a ballot containing federal offices only. In a local (non-federal) election, this means there is no ballot to send the voter. (Secs. 101.052(b), (f), 114.004(c)).

 
 Last day for early voting clerk to receive applications for a ballot to be voted by mail. (Sec. 84.007(c)). All applications to vote by mail must be received by the early voting clerk before the close of regular business or 12 noon, whichever is later . Applications to vote by mail must be submitted by mail, common or contract carrier, in-person delivery by the voter, fax (if a fax machine is available in the office of the early voting clerk), or by electronic submission of a scanned application with an original signature. The early voting clerk s designated email address must be posted on the Secretary of State s website.

 
 If an ABBM is faxed or emailed or if an FPCA is faxed, then the applicant must submit the ORIGINAL application BY MAIL to the early voting clerk so that the early voting clerk receives the original no later than the 4th business day after receiving the emailed or faxed ABBM or faxed FPCA . If the early voting clerk does not receive the original ABBM or FPCA by that deadline, then the emailed or faxed ABBM or faxed FPCA will be considered incomplete, and the early voting clerk may NOT send the applicant a ballot. The requirement to mail the original application does not apply to an emailed FPCA.

 An applicant for a ballot to be voted by mail (ABBM or FPCA) may submit the application by delivering it in person to the early voting clerk if the application is submitted not later than the close of regular business in the clerk s office on Friday, October 23, 2026. (Sec. 84.008). For more information on submission of ABBMs and FPCAs, see Note 17 .

 
 NOTE: Section 86.008 provides that if the early voting clerk determines that it would not be possible for the applicant to correct certain defects in a mail ballot application and return an application form by mail before the deadline, the clerk may notify the applicant by telephone or e-mail of the defect and inform the applicant that the applicant may come to the early voting clerk s office before the deadline and correct the defect in person. The clerk shall notify the applicant of a defect discovered and provide the information required to permit the applicant to correct the defect using the Secretary of State s online Ballot by Mail Tracker, if possible. See Note 18. 

 
 NOTE: An application is considered submitted in the following calendar year if: 1) the applicant is eligible to vote in an election occurring in January or February of the next calendar year; and 2) the application is submitted in the last 60 days of a calendar year but not earlier than the 60th day before the date of the January or February election. (Sec. 101.052).

 
 Note for Counties: Last day for county clerk/elections administrator to deliver final list of voters that have submitted an annual application for ballot by mail to political subdivisions located within the county holding an election on November 3, 2026, for which the county clerk/elections administrator is not the early voting clerk via a joint election agreement or contract for election services. (Sec. 86.0015(c)).

 
 Saturday, October 24, 2026 (10th day before Election Day; last Saturday of early voting period)

 Extended weekend early voting for ALL counties (regardless of population) . Early voting must be conducted for at least 12 consecutive hours on the last Saturday of the early voting period at the main early voting polling place. In counties with a population of 100,000 or more, early voting must be conducted for at least 12 consecutive hours on the last Saturday of the early voting period at any required temporary branch locations (created under Section 85.062(d) of the Texas Election Code). (Secs. 85.006(e), 85.062(d), 85.064(d)). See Note 10 and Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2023-10 .  

 
 Last day of period during which notice of the November General Election for state and county officers and other elections ordered by a county or a city or school district must be published in a newspaper of general circulation. (Sec. 4.003(a)(1)).

 
 NOTE: The election notice shall be posted on the political subdivision s website, if the political subdivision maintains a website.

 
 Last day to mail a copy of the notice of election to each registered voter of the territory that is covered by the election and is in the jurisdiction of the authority responsible for giving the notice if method of giving notice is not specified by a law outside the Election Code and this method of giving notice is selected. (Secs. 1.006, 4.003(a)(3)).

 
 Sunday, October 25, 2026 (9th day before Election Day; last Sunday of early voting period)

 
 Extended weekend early voting for ALL counties (regardless of population) . Early voting must be conducted for at least 6 consecutive hours on the last Sunday of the early voting period at the main early voting polling place. In counties with a population of 100,000 or more, early voting must be conducted for at least 6 hours on the last Sunday of the early voting period at any required temporary branch locations (created under Section 85.062(d) of the Texas Election Code). (Secs. 85.006(e), 85.062(d), 85.064(d)).  See Note 10 . 

 NOTE: There is no petition process to require a county with a population less than 100,000 to conduct weekend early voting at temporary branch locations. However, the early voting clerk may voluntarily order weekend early voting at temporary branch locations by written order if they choose to do so.

 
 Deadline to post Notice of Delivery of Early Voting Balloting Materials (PDF) , if ballot board will be meeting on Monday, October 26, 2026. Notice of delivery must be posted at the main early voting location continuously for 24 hours prior to delivery, if delivery will occur before election day. (Sec. 87.0222).

 
 NOTE : The Notice of Delivery of Early Voting Balloting Materials serves as notice of the convening of the early voting ballot board. This notice should be posted every time the early voting ballot board reconvenes.

 NOTE: The county clerk/elections administrator must ensure that photocopies or electronic recordings of annual applications for ballot by mail have been delivered to the early voting clerk of every political subdivision holding an election before the ballots by mail are delivered to the early voting ballot board.

 Monday, October 26, 2026 – Friday, October 30, 2026 (last week of early voting by personal appearance)

 Early voting must be conducted for at least 12 consecutive hours on each weekday of the last week of the early voting period at the main early voting polling place. Voting may not be conducted earlier than 6:00 AM or later than 10:00 PM. (Sec. 85.005(c)). 

 
 Monday, October 26, 2026 (8th day before Election Day)

 
 Extended weekday early voting for ALL counties (regardless of population) . Early voting must be conducted for at least 12 consecutive hours on each weekday of the last week of the early voting period at the main early voting polling place. Voting may not be conducted earlier than 6:00 AM or later than 10:00 PM. (Sec. 85.005(c)).

 
 NOTE: In counties with a population of 100,000 or more, the general custodian of election records shall implement a live-stream video surveillance system that retains a record of all areas containing voted ballots from the time the voted ballots are delivered to the central counting station, the signature verification committee, or early voting ballot board until the canvass of precinct election returns. (Sec. 127.1232). For more information, see Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2022-10 .

 
 NOTE: Section 87.0222 provides that not later than the ninth day before election day, the jacket envelopes containing early voting ballots voted by mail MUST be delivered to the early voting ballot board. This requirement applies regardless of the county s population size . Any jacket envelopes of early voting ballots voted by mail returned after delivery of the ballots to the early voting ballot board may be delivered to the presiding judge of the early voting ballot board between the end of the ninth day before election day and the closing of the polls on election day, or as soon after closing as practicable, at the time or times specified by the presiding judge. The early voting clerk shall post notice of each delivery of balloting materials that is to be made before the time for opening the polls on election day. The notice must be posted at the main early voting polling place continuously for at least 24 hours immediately preceding the delivery.

 
 Because the ninth day falls on Sunday, October 25, 2026, the deadline is extended to Monday, October 26, 2026. (Sec. 1.006).

 
 NOTE: The EVBB can meet as soon as the county has received voted ballots by mail from voters and those materials are delivered to the ballot board. The ballot board does not have to wait until this ninth-day deadline to meet.

 
 Wednesday, October 28, 2026 (6th day and 4th business day before Election Day)

 
 5:00 p.m. — Deadline to submit a Request for Election Inspectors (PDF) for election day, Tuesday, November 3, 2026 to the Secretary of State. (Sec. 34.001).

 
 Thursday, October 29, 2026 (5th day before Election Day; day before the last day to vote early in person) 

 
 A voter is eligible to vote a late ballot if they will be out of the county of residence on election day due to a death in the immediate family (related within 2nd degree of consanguinity or affinity) that occurs on or after this day. The voter may submit the Application for Emergency Early Ballot Due to Death in Family (PDF) starting Saturday, October 31, 2026 (the day after early voting in person ends). (Secs. 103.001, 103.003(b)). An application may be submitted after the last day of the period for early voting by personal appearance and before the close of business on the day before election day. (Sec. 103.003). 

 
 Deadline for the early voting clerk to receive, by mail, the original or a copy with a wet signature of an ABBM that was faxed or emailed or of an FPCA that was faxed on the deadline to apply for a ballot by mail, Friday, October 23, 2026. 

 
 NOTE: Sec. 84.007(b-1) provides that a voter who faxed or emailed their ABBM or faxed their FPCA must mail the original to the early voting clerk so that the early voting clerk receives the original no later than the 4th business day after receiving the emailed or faxed ABBM or faxed FPCA . For more information, see Note 17 .

 
 Friday, October 30, 2026 (4th day before Election Day)

 
 Last day to vote early in person. (Sec. 85.001(a)).

 
 Early voting clerk must post Notice of Delivery of Early Voting Balloting Materials (PDF) to the early voting ballot board if materials are to be delivered to the board on Saturday, October 31, 2026. Notice must be posted continuously for 24 hours preceding each delivery to the board. (Secs. 87.0221, 87.0222, 87.023, 87.024, 87.0241).

 
 After the polls close at the end of early voting , the ballot board and/or central counting station may convene to perform the following activities, depending on the population size of the county:

 
 Counties with a population of 100,000 or more that use electronic voting systems:

 
 In an election conducted by an authority of a county with a population of 100,000 or more that uses electronic voting systems, or conducted jointly with such a county or conducted with such a county through a contract for election services, the early voting ballot board may begin counting at the end of the period for early voting by personal appearance. (Sec. 87.0241(b)(2)).

 
 After the polls close at the end of early voting by personal appearance , counties with a population of 100,000 or more (or local subdivisions conducting a joint election with such a county or conducting an election through a contract for election services with such a county) may convene their early voting ballot board and begin counting ballots; however, the results may not be announced until after the polls close. (Secs. 87.0222, 87.0241).

 
 NOTE: If ballots are to be delivered before election day, the early voting clerk must post notice (PDF) at least 24 hours before each delivery at the main early voting polling place. (Secs. 87.0221(b), 87.023(b), 87.024(b)). 

 
 NOTE: NEW LAW: SB 2217 (2025, R.S.) - In an election using centrally counted optical scan ballots, the presiding judge of the central counting station shall prepare a report regarding the total number of ballots scanned by each optical scanner from each data storage device. The presiding judge of the central counting station shall prepare one report for the total number of ballots from each specific data-storage device. The presiding judge of the central counting station must prepare the report for the data-storage device before the information from the storage device is read into a central accumulator. The report prepared before the opening of polling locations on election day may not contain information on the number of votes cast for any candidate or for or against any proposition. (Sec. 127.1302).

 NOTE: Section 127.1232 provides that in counties with a population of 100,000 or more, the general custodian of election records shall implement a video surveillance system that retains a record of all areas containing voted ballots: (1) from the time the voted ballots are delivered to the central counting station until the canvass of the precinct election returns; and (2) from the time the voted ballots are delivered to the signature verification committee or early voting ballot board until the canvass of precinct election returns. Video from the surveillance system shall be made available to the public by live stream. The recorded video is considered an election record and shall be retained by the general custodian until the end of the calendar year in which an election is held or until an election contest filed in the county has been resolved, whichever is later. (Sec. 127.1232). See Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2022-10 . 

 
 Counties with a Population of Less than 100,000:

 
 These counties may convene their early voting ballot board for processing and qualifying mail ballots, but cannot begin counting the ballots until the polls open on election day. These counties can meet whenever they have ballots, but at the very least have to meet at some point on or before the 9th day before election day. The early voting clerk shall continuously post notice for 24 hours preceding each delivery of voting materials that is to be made before the time for opening the polls on election day. (Secs. 87.0221, 87.023, 87.024, 87.0241). See Notice of Delivery of Early Voting Balloting Materials (PDF) .

 
 NOTE: For more information on corrective action procedures, see Note 18. 

 
 Saturday, October 31, 2026 (3rd day before Election Day) 

 First day to submit an Application for Emergency Early Ballot Due to Death in Family (PDF) to vote a late ballot because of a death in the immediate family that occurred on or after Thursday, October 29, 2026, and will require absence from the county on election day. (Secs. 103.001, 103.003(b)). An application may be submitted after the last day of the period for early voting by personal appearance and before the close of business on the day before election day. (Sec. 103.003). 

 
 November

 Sunday, November 1, 2026 (Daylight Savings Time Ends)

 

 Monday, November 2, 2026 (day before Election Day)

 NOTE: For November 2, 2027 Election: Chapter 2051 of the Government Code requires any political subdivision with the authority to impose a tax that maintained a publicly available Internet website at any time on or after January 1, 2019, to post on that website the requirements and deadline for filing for candidacy of each elected office of the political subdivision continuously for one year before the election day for that office. See Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2019-19. 

 Last day to submit an Application for Emergency Early Ballot Due to Death in Family (PDF) . The application must be submitted by the close of business on this day. (Sec. 103.003(b)).

 Last day for early voting clerk to mark the precinct list of registered voters with a notation beside each name of voter who voted early, and deliver list to election judges. The early voting clerk must also deliver the precinct early voting list. (Sec. 87.122). This may be delivered electronically if your county is using an e-poll book.

 Delivery of Provisional Ballots and Forms : If the voter registrar wants to take possession of the provisional ballots and forms on election night, the voter registrar must inform the custodian of the election records and post a Notice of Election Night Transfer (PDF) no later than Monday, November 2, 2026, 24 hours before election day. (1 T.A.C. § 81.174(d)(3)). However, under this type of delivery, the county voter registrar must go to the custodian of election records office and pick up the provisional ballots and forms.

 NOTE: Under this type of delivery, the county voter registrar must go to the office of the custodian of election records and pick up the provisional ballots and forms.

 NOTE: The general custodian of election records (or the early voting clerk, if applicable) must also post a Notice of Delivery of Provisional Ballots (PDF) at least 24 hours before delivery will occur. (1 T.A.C. § 81.174(b)(1)).

 Tuesday, November 3, 2026 (Election Day)

 
 
 7:00 a.m. – 7:00 p.m. 

 
 Polls open. (Sec. 41.031).

 Voter registrar s office is open. (Sec. 12.004(c)).

 Early voting clerk s office is open for early voting activities. A voter may deliver a marked ballot by mail to the early voting clerk s office while the polls are open on election day. The voter must provide an acceptable form of identification under Section 63.0101 upon delivery. The identification procedure is the same as that used for personal appearance voting. (Secs. 63.0101, 83.011, 86.006).

 

 
 5:00 p.m. 

 
 Deadline for receiving Application for Emergency Early Voting Ballot Due to Sickness or Physical Disability (PDF) for late ballots to be voted by persons who became sick or disabled on or after Thursday, October 22, 2026 . (Sec. 102.003(b)).

 

 
 7:00 p.m. 

 
 Regular deadline for receiving early voting ballots by mail. BUT see entry for Wednesday, November 4, 2026 on late domestic ballots and entry for Monday, November 9, 2026 on other late ballots. 

 This is also the deadline to receive late ballots cast by voters who became sick or disabled on or after Thursday, October 22, 2026. (Secs. 86.007(a), 102.006(c)).

 

 
 NOTE: Section 61.002 provides that immediately before the opening of the polls on election day, the presiding judge or alternate judge shall confirm that the public counters on each voting machine are set to zero and shall print the tape that shows that there are zero votes for each candidate or measure on the ballot. Immediately after the closing of the polls on election day, the presiding judge or alternate judge shall print the tape to show the number of votes cast for each candidate or measure. Each election judge and alternate judge shall sign the printed tapes. (Sec. 61.002).

 NOTE: The presiding judge of the central counting station must provide and attest to a written reconciliation of votes and voters at the close of tabulation for election day and again after the central counting station meets for the last time to process late-arriving ballots by mail and provisional ballots. (Sec. 127.131). Preliminary Election Reconciliation (PDF) – Unofficial Totals form (Election Day) . Election Reconciliation Form (PDF) – Official Results (Canvass Form) . See Note on Reconciliation. 

 NOTE: Receipt of Mail Ballots : All early voting ballots sent by mail from inside the United States that are received by 7:00 p.m. on election day, November 3, 2026, must be counted on election night . If the carrier envelope does not bear a cancellation mark or a receipt mark, the ballot must arrive before the time the polls are required to close on election day . (Sec. 86.007(a)(1)). If the early voting clerk cannot determine whether a ballot arrived before the deadline, the ballot is considered to have arrived at the time the place at which the carrier envelopes are deposited was last inspected for removal of returned ballots. (Sec. 86.007(b)). The early voting clerk must check the mailbox for early voting mail ballots at least once after the time for regular mail delivery. (Sec. 86.007(b)).

 NOTE: An early voting mail ballot that is not received by 7:00 p.m. on election day may not be counted unless the ballot may be counted late, which applies to ballots mailed from outside the United States (Sec. 86.007(d)), late domestic ballots (Sec. 86.007(a)(2)), and ballots from members of the armed forces and merchant marine of the United States, Texas National Guard or the National Guard of another state or members of the Reserves, as well as their spouses and dependents (Sec. 101.057). See entry for Wednesday, November 4, 2026 and entry for Monday, November 9, 2026. See Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2018-02. 

 NOTE: Delivery of Early Voting by Personal Appearance and Mail Ballots: The early voting clerk delivers the voted ballots, the key to the double-locked ballot box, etc., to the early voting ballot board at the time or times specified by the presiding judge of the early voting ballot board, during the hours the polls are open or as soon after the polls close as practicable. (Secs. 87.021, 87.022). The custodian of the key to the second lock of the double-locked early voting ballot box delivers his or her key to the presiding judge of the early voting ballot board on request of the presiding judge. (Secs. 85.032(d), 87.025). 

 
 The custodian is the sheriff for county elections; the chief of police or city marshal for city elections; and the constable of the justice precinct in which the political subdivision s main office is located (or the sheriff, if there is no constable), for other political subdivision elections. (Sec. 66.060). If ballots are to be delivered before election day, the early voting clerk must post notice (PDF) at least 24 hours before each delivery at the main early voting polling place. Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2022-10 .

 
 Note on Delivery of Early Voting Ballots to Early Voting Ballot Board Before Election Day: Any jacket envelopes of early voting ballots voted by mail returned after delivery of the ballots to the early voting ballot board may be delivered to the presiding judge of the early voting ballot board between the end of the ninth day before election day and the closing of the polls on election day, or as soon after closing as practicable, at the time or times specified by the presiding judge.

 Mail ballots may be qualified and processed (signatures verified, carrier envelopes opened, and the secrecy envelope containing the ballot placed in a secure location), but they may not be counted until election day. (Secs. 87.0221, 87.0222, 87.023, 87.024, 87.0241). If ballots are to be delivered before election day, the early voting clerk must post notice (PDF) at least 24 hours before each delivery at the main early voting polling place.

 
 Exception: Counties with a population of 100,000 or more, or entities that are having joint elections with counties with a population of 100,000 or more or who are conducting an election through a contract for election services with such a county, may begin counting ballots no earlier than the end of the period for early voting by personal appearance; the results may not be released until the polls close on election day. If ballots are to be delivered before election day, the early voting clerk must post notice (PDF) at least 24 hours before each delivery at the main early voting polling place. (Secs. 87.0221, 87.0222, 87.023, 87.024, 87.0241(b), 87.042).

 NOTE: In counties with a population of 100,000 or more, the general custodian of election records shall implement a live-stream video surveillance system that retains a record of all areas containing voted ballots from the time the voted ballots are delivered to the central counting station, the signature verification committee, or early voting ballot board until the canvass of precinct election returns. (Sec. 127.1232). For more information, see Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2022-10 .

 NOTE – NEW LAW: SB 2217 (2025, R.S.) - In an election using centrally counted optical scan ballots, the presiding judge of the central counting station shall prepare a report regarding the total number of ballots scanned by each optical scanner from each data storage device. The presiding judge of the central counting station shall prepare one report for the total number of ballots from each specific data-storage device. The presiding judge of the central counting station must prepare the report for the data-storage device before the information from the storage device is read into a central accumulator. The report prepared before the opening of polling locations on election day may not contain information on the number of votes cast for any candidate or for or against any proposition. (Sec. 127.1302).

 
 NOTE – Manual Examination of Ballots Before Processing on Automatic Counting Equipment : The central counting station manager shall direct the manual examination of all electronic voting system ballots to ascertain whether the ballots can be processed in the usual manner or if the ballots need to be duplicated to clearly reflect the voter s intent. (Sec. 127.125).

 NOTE – Testing of Tabulating Equipment: The second test of automatic tabulating equipment used for counting ballots at a central counting station must be conducted immediately before the counting of ballots with equipment begins. The third test must be conducted immediately after the counting is completed. (Secs. 127.093, 127.097, 127.098). See Note 15 .

 
 Transfer of Provisional Ballots to Voter Registrar on Election Night: The county voter registrar may take possession of the ballot box(es) or transfer case(s) containing the provisional ballots on election night (instead of on the next business day) by informing the custodian of election records and posting a notice of such election night transfer no later than 24 hours before election day. Under this type of delivery, the voter registrar must go to the office of the custodian and pick up the ballot box(es) or transfer case(s) and associated forms. (Sec. 65.052; 1 T.A.C. §§ 81.172 – 81.174 & 81.176). See 
 Verification of Provisional Ballots and Serial Numbers (PDF) .

 
 After the polling place is officially closed and the last person has voted, the presiding judge may from time to time make an unofficial announcement of the total number of votes counted for each candidate and/or for or against each proposition in the order that they appear on the ballot. (Sec. 65.015(a)). The announcement shall be made at the entrance to the polling place. (Sec. 65.015(c)).

 
 NOTE: The authority conducting the election may require or prohibit such announcements. (Sec. 65.015(b)). Unofficial election results must be released by the central counting station as soon as they are available after the polls close, but the presiding judge of the central counting station, in cooperation with the county election officer, may choose to withhold the release of vote totals until the last voter has voted. (Sec. 127.1311).

 
 NOTE: Precinct Election Returns: Precinct election returns are delivered to the appropriate authorities after completion. (Secs. 66.053(a), 127.065, 127.066, 127.067).

 
 Last day to post notice of governing authority s meeting to canvass returns of election if canvass is to take place on Friday, November 6, 2026 (3rd business day after election). (Sec. 67.003(b)). This notice must be posted at least three business days before the scheduled date of the meeting. (Secs. 551.002, 551.041, 551.043, Government Code). The notice of a meeting of a governmental body must be posted in a place readily accessible to the general public at all times for at least three business days.

 NEW LAW NOTE: HB 1522 (2025, R.S.) , effective September 1, 2025, modifies notice requirements for meetings conducted under the open-meetings law by changing the notice posting requirement from a minimum of 72 hours to at least three business days before the date of the scheduled meeting. (Sec. 551.043, Government Code).

 
 NOTE: Section 67.003 provides that, except as provided by Section 67.003(c), each local canvassing authority shall convene to conduct the local canvass at the time set by the canvassing authority s presiding officer not later than the 11th day after election day and not earlier than the later of:

 
 
 the third day after election day; 

 the date on which the early voting ballot board has verified and counted all provisional ballots, if a provisional ballot has been cast in the election; or

 the date on which all timely received ballots cast from addresses outside of the United States are counted, if a ballot to be voted by mail in the election was provided to a person outside of the United States.

 

 Counties, Cities, and School Districts: Section 65.016 provides for election results information which must be posted on county, city, and school district websites. A county that holds an election or provides election services for an election for a public entity must post certain information regarding election results on their website after the election. A city or independent school district that holds an election and maintains an Internet website must also post certain information on their website related to election results, even if the county is also posting. All entities must post the required information as soon as practicable after the election. For more information, see Note 3 .

 
 Counties with a Population of 250,000 or more : Under Section 127.009 of the Election Code, counties with a population of 250,000 or more must forward a copy of the audit logs from the central counting station to the Secretary of State no later than the fifth day after voting is completed. The information may be forwarded to the Secretary of State by email, thumb drive, or by mail.

 
 NOTE - NEW LAW: HB 521 (2025, R.S.) , effective September 1, 2025, makes several changes to curbside voting and assistance procedures. All curbside voters must fill out a form attesting that they are physically unable to enter the polling place. The form can be filled out either on an electronic pollbook or on a separate paper form. (Sec. 61.003).

 
 When curbside voters are given transportation by another person, the election officer must ask the person providing transportation whether the person has assisted seven or more curbside voters during the entire voting period (meaning early voting and election day combined). If the driver indicates that they have assisted seven or more curbside voters, then he or she must complete and sign a form that contains the person s name and address and indicates whether the person is assisting the voter with voting as well. These forms must be delivered to our office as soon as practicable. (Sec. 64.009).

 
 Wednesday, November 4, 2026 (1st day after Election Day) 

 
 5:00 p.m. – Deadline to receive late domestic ballots mailed within the United States from non- military voters and from any military voters who submitted an Application for Ballot by Mail ( ABBM ) ( not a Federal Postcard Application – FPCA ), if the carrier envelope was placed for delivery by mail or common or contract carrier AND bears a cancellation mark of a postal service or a receipt mark of a common or contract carrier or a courier indicating a time not later than 7:00 p.m. at the location of the election on election day, November 3, 2026 . (Secs. 86.007, 101.057, 101.001). A late domestic ballot cannot be counted if it does not bear a cancellation mark or a receipt mark.

 
 NOTE: Because of the deadline to receive late domestic ballots it is imperative that you check your mail at 5:00 p.m. 

 
 NOTE: This deadline does not apply to ballots sent by non-military voters who are overseas but applied for a ballot using an ABBM; these voters have until the 5th day after election day to return their ballots (or the next business day if the 5th day falls on a weekend or legal state or federal holiday). This deadline also does not apply to ballots mailed (domestically or from overseas) by certain members of the military who applied for a ballot using an FPCA; those voters have until the 6th day after election day to return their ballots. See entry for Monday, November 9, 2026.

 
 Unless the county voter registrar has already taken possession of the provisional ballots prior to this date, the general custodian of election records must deliver the ballot box(es) or transfer case(s) containing the provisional ballots (or provisional ballot affidavits when DRE systems are used), along with the Summary of Provisional Ballots (PDF) and the List of Provisional Voters (PDF) for each precinct to the voter registrar by this day. The general custodian of election records makes this delivery to the voter registrar during the voter registrar office s regular business hours. (Secs. 65.052, 65.053; 1 T.A.C. §§ 81.172 – 81.174, 81.176).

 
 Note for Political Subdivisions Located in More than One County: A political subdivision will have to make delivery of the provisional ballots and forms to the county voter registrar in each county in which the political subdivision is located. (1 T.A.C. §§ 81.172 – 81.174).

 
 NOTE: If the county voter registrar wants to take possession of the provisional ballots and forms on election night (Tuesday, November 3, 2026), the county voter registrar must inform the custodian of the election records and post a notice of the transfer no later than 24 hours before election day. However, under this type of delivery, the county voter registrar must go to the office of the general custodian of election records and pick up the provisional ballots and forms. Also, note that the county voter registrar may take possession of provisional ballots prior to election night if ballots are kept separate and may be provided without unlawful entry into ballot box. (1 T.A.C. §§ 81.172 – 81.174).

 
 Friday, November 6, 2026 (3rd day after Election Day, 36th day before runoff election day)

 
 Last day to begin the Post-Election Hand Count Audit for entities using electronic voting systems for the counting of ballots. This is the last day to begin manual recount of ballots in three precincts or one percent of precincts, whichever is greater. (Sec. 127.201(a), (g)). The count must be completed not later than the 21st day after election day. Results of the manual count must be delivered to the Secretary of State not later than the 3rd day after the manual count is completed. (Sec. 127.201(e)). The Post-Election Hand Count Audit does not need to be done of ballots cast on DRE voting machines, but the Post-Election Hand Count Audit must be completed for mail ballots. (Sec. 127.201(g)). For more information, see Post-Election Hand Count Audit Guide . 
-->

 
 The first possible day to conduct the official local canvass of returns by the governing authority of the political subdivision. However, the canvass may not be conducted until the early voting ballot board has verified and counted all provisional ballots, if a provisional ballot has been cast in the election, AND counted all timely received mailed domestic ballots cast from addresses within the United States, and all timely received mailed ballots cast from addresses outside the United States. Secs. 67.003, 86.007). Notice of canvass must be posted at least 3 business days before the day the canvass is conducted. See Note for Tuesday, November 3, 2026.

 
 NOTE: Section 1.012 provides that on the first day after the final canvass of an election is completed, the general custodian of election records shall make images of voted ballots and cast vote records available for public inspection. For information on the inspection of voted ballots, including ballot images and cast vote records, as well as guidelines on voter privacy, please see Note 23 , Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2024-05, and Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2024-20. 

 
 NOTE: If a recount petition has been filed and a winning candidate s race is involved in the recount, the certificate of election cannot be issued for that race until the recount has been completed. (Secs. 67.016, 212.0331).

 
 Cities, Schools, and Other Political Subdivisions : First day that newly elected local officers may qualify and assume the duties of their offices. Please note that the canvass must have been completed before an officer can assume office. (Sec. 67.016). If a political subdivision was able to cancel its election, this is the first day its elected officials can take the oath of office and be issued a certificate of election. (Secs. 2.053(e), 67.003, 67.016). For information on who can administer an oath, please see Chapter 602 of the Government Code.

 
 NOTE: This does not apply to officers of a Type A general law city, who cannot qualify until the 6th day after election day. See entry at Monday, November 9, 2026 .

 
 Monday, November 9, 2026 (6th day after Election Day, 33rd day before Runoff Election Day) 

 
 NOTE: Last day a voter may come to the early voting clerk s office in person to correct certain defects on their carrier envelope. (Secs. 87.0271, 87.0411). See Note 18. 

 
 Last day to receive ballots from non-military and any military voters casting ballots from outside of the United States, who submitted an ABBM (not an FPCA) AND who placed their ballots in delivery by 7:00 p.m. on election day, Tuesday, November 3, 2026, as evidenced by a postal service cancellation mark or a receipt mark of a common or contract carrier or a courier (Secs. 86.007, 101.057, 101.001). A late overseas ballot sent by a voter who applied for a ballot using an ABBM (not an FPCA) cannot be counted if it does not bear a cancellation mark or a receipt mark. The deadline is extended to the next regular business day, which is Monday, November 9, 2026, due to the 5th day falling on a Sunday. (Secs. 1.006, 86.007(d-1)).

 
 Last day to receive ballots from non-military voters casting ballots from overseas who submitted a FPCA AND who placed their ballots in delivery by 7:00 p.m. on election day, Tuesday, November 3, 2026. (Sec. 86.007(d), (e)). The deadline is extended to the next regular business day, which is Monday, November 9, 2026, due to the 5th day falling on a Sunday. (Secs. 1.006, 86.007(d-1)).

 
 Last day to receive carrier envelopes mailed domestically (within the United States) OR overseas from voters who submitted a FPCA AND who are members of the armed forces of the United States, or the spouse or a dependent of a member of the armed forces, members of the merchant marines of the United States, or the spouse or a dependent of a member of the merchant marine, members of the Texas National Guard, or the spouse or a dependent of a member of the Texas National Guard, a member of the National Guard of another state, or the spouse or a dependent of a member of the National Guard of another state, or members of the Reserves, or the spouse or a dependent of a member of the Reserves. (Secs. 86.007, 101.057, 101.001).

 
 NOTE - The carrier envelope or, if applicable, the envelope containing the carrier envelope sent by the members listed above who applied to vote by mail using the FPCA does NOT need to bear a cancellation or receipt mark in order to be counted. 

 
 Deadline for ID-related provisional voter to (1) present acceptable photo identification to county voter registrar; or (2) if the voter does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain acceptable photo identification, follow the Reasonable Impediment Declaration procedure at the county voter registrar; or (3) execute an affidavit relative to natural disaster or religious objection in presence of county voter registrar, if applicable; or (4) qualify for the disability exemption, if applicable, with the county voter registrar. (Secs. 65.054, 65.0541).

 
 First day that newly-elected officers of Type A general law city may qualify and assume duties of office (per Sec. 22.006, Local Government Code), but see NOTE , below.

 
 NOTE:  If a Type A municipal officer-elect fails to qualify for office within 30 days after the date of the officer s election, the office is considered vacant. (Sec. 22.007, Local Government Code). See entry for December 3, 2026 .

 
 NOTE: Council members may take office anytime following the canvass . Section 22.006 of the Texas Local Government Code states that a newly-elected municipal officer of a Type A city may exercise the duties of office beginning the fifth day after the date of the election, excluding Sundays. However, no newly elected official may qualify for office before the official canvass of the election has been conducted (or would have been conducted, in the event of a cancelled election). Section 22.036 of the Texas Local Government Code further requires that the newly- elected governing body of the municipality meet at the usual meeting place and shall be installed. 

 
 NOTE: If a recount petition has been filed, the certificate of election cannot be issued for that race until the recount has been completed. (Secs. 67.016, 212.0331).

 
 Tuesday, November 10, 2026 (7th day after Election Day) 

 
 Last day to post notice of governing authority s meeting to canvass returns of election if canvass is to take place on Monday, November 16, 2026 (13th day after election). (Sec. 67.003(b)). This notice must be posted at least three business days before the scheduled date of the meeting. (Secs. 551.002, 551.041, 551.043, Government Code). The notice of a meeting of a governmental body must be posted in a place readily accessible to the general public at all times for at least three business days.

 
 NEW LAW NOTE: HB 1522 (2025, R.S.) , effective September 1, 2025, modifies notice requirements for meetings conducted under the open-meetings law by changing the notice posting requirement from a minimum of 72 hours to at least three business days before the date of the scheduled meeting. (Sec. 551.043, Government Code).

 
 Wednesday, November 11, 2026 (8th day after Election Day) (Veterans Day) 

 

 
 Friday, November 13, 2026 (10th day after Election Day, 29th day before Runoff Election Day)

 
 Deadline for voter registrar to complete the review of provisional ballots. (Sec. 65.052; 1 T.A.C. §§ 81.172 – 81.175).

 The presiding judge of the early voting ballot board shall mail a Notice of Rejected Ballot (PDF) to voters whose mail ballots were rejected no later than the 10th day after election day or as soon as practicable, depending on when the early voting ballot board last convenes. (Sec. 87.0431).

 
 Monday, November 16, 2026 (13th day after Election Day, 26th day before Runoff Election Day)

 
 Deadline for each county's general custodian of election records to submit their ballot manifest for the statewide risk-limiting audit to the Secretary of State's Office for the November 3, 2026 election. (Sec. 127.302) 

 NOTE : Additional instructions on submitting the ballot manifest and for conducting the risk-limiting audit will be provided to counties before this deadline. 

 Deadline for custodian of election records or presiding judge of the early voting ballot board to retrieve provisional ballots from county voter registrar. (Sec. 65.051(a)).

 
 Last day for early voting ballot board to convene to qualify and count the following ballots addressed below. 

 
 
 any late domestic ballots (from non-military and from any military voters who submitted an ABBM) that bear a cancellation mark or receipt mark indicating they were placed for delivery by mail or common or contract carrier not later than 7:00 p.m. on election day, November 3, 2026, and were received not later than 5:00 p.m. on the first business day after election day, on Wednesday, November 4, 2026. (Secs. 86.007(a), 87.125(a)).

 any late ballots that were submitted from outside the United States by voters who applied for the ballot using an ABBM or by non-military voters who applied for the ballot using an FPCA, and which were received by Monday, November 9, 2026. (The deadline usually is the 5th day after election day, but for this election is extended to the next regular business day, which is Monday, November 9, 2026, due to the 5th day falling on a Sunday.). (Secs. 1.006, 87.125(a), 86.007(d)).

 any ballots received by the 6th day after election day, Monday, November 9, 2026, from voters who are members of the armed forces of the United States, or the spouse or a dependent of a member of the armed forces, members of the merchant marines of the United States, or the spouse or a dependent of a member of the merchant marine, members of the Texas National Guard, or the spouse or a dependent of a member of the Texas National Guard, a member of the National Guard of another state, or the spouse or a dependent of a member of the National Guard of another state, or members of the Reserves, or the spouse or a dependent of a member of the Reserves, and who applied for a ballot using an FPCA. (Secs. 101.057, 87.125(a)).

 any provisional ballots that have been reviewed by the voter registrar. (Sec. 65.051(a)).

 ballots contained in defective carrier envelopes corrected by voters. (Sec. 86.011(d)).

 

 NOTE: Ballots that do not qualify under 1-3 above should be treated as ballots not timely returned and should not be delivered to the ballot board.

 
 NOTE: If the early voting ballot board needs to meet after this date, it will require a court order to do so.

 
 The time the board reconvenes is set by the presiding judge of the early voting ballot board. (Secs. 86.007(d), 87.125).

 
 NOTE: Section 65.0581 provides that provisional voting records do not become public information until after the provisional ballots and other voting records have been delivered back to the custodian of election records. (Sec. 65.0581).

 
 NOTE: The presiding judge of the early voting ballot board shall mail a Notice of Rejected Ballot (PDF) to voters whose mail ballots were rejected no later than the 10th day after election day or as soon as practicable, depending on when the early voting ballot board last convenes. (Sec. 87.0431).  

 NOTE: The presiding judge of the central counting station is required to provide and attest to a written reconciliation (PDF) of votes and voters at the close of tabulation for election day and again after the central counting station meets for the last time to process late-arriving ballots by mail and provisional ballots. (Sec. 127.131). See Note 19 on Reconciliation . 

 
 NOTE: Section 1.012 provides that on the first day after the final canvass of an election is completed, the general custodian of election records shall make images of voted ballots and cast vote records available for public inspection. For information on the inspection of voted ballots, including ballot images and cast vote records, as well as guidelines on voter privacy, please see Note 23 , Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2024-05, and Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2024-20. 

 
 NOTE: If a recount petition has been filed and a winning candidate s race is involved in the recount, the certificate of election cannot be issued for that race until the recount has been completed. (Secs. 67.016, 212.0331).

 
 Last day for the presiding judge of the early voting ballot board to mail Notice of Outcome to Provisional Voter (PDF) to provisional voters if the local canvass was held on Friday, November 6, 2026, the first day of the canvass period. These notices must be delivered to provisional voters by the presiding judge no later than the 10th day after the local canvass (Sec. 65.059; 1 T.A.C. § 81.176(e)).

 
 Tuesday, November 17, 2026 (14th day after Election Day, 25th day before Runoff Election Day)

 Last day for official canvass of returns by governing authority of political subdivision. (Sec. 67.003). 

 
 NOTE: If a recount petition has been filed and a winning candidate s race is involved in the recount, the certificate of election cannot be issued for that race until the recount has been completed. (Secs. 67.016, 212.0331).

 
 NOTE: Section 1.012 provides that on the first day after the final canvass of an election is completed, the general custodian of election records shall make images of voted ballots and cast vote records available for public inspection. For information on the inspection of voted ballots, including ballot images and cast vote records, as well as guidelines on voter privacy, please see Note 23 , Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2024-05, and Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2024-20. 

 
 Wednesday, November 18, 2026 (15th day after Election Day, 24th day before Runoff Election Day)

 
 Election records from the November 3, 2026 election must be available in an electronic format no later than this day, for a fee of not more than $50.00. (Sec. 1.012(e)).

 
 Thursday, November 19, 2026 (16th day after Election Day, 24th day before Runoff Election Day)

 Date that the statewide risk-limiting audit will be conducted. (Sec. 127.302) 

 NOTE: Additional instructions on conducting the risk-limiting audit will be provided to counties before the risk-limiting audit is conducted. 

 Saturday, November 21, 2026 (18th day after Election Day, 21st day before Runoff Election Day) 

 
 First day that the Governor may conduct the state canvass of the November General Election for state and county officers. (Sec. 67.012).

 
 Monday, November 23, 2026 (20th day after Election Day , 19th day before Runoff Election Day ) 

 
 Last day to begin the Post-Election Hand Count Audit for entities using electronic voting systems for the counting of ballots, if the Secretary of State certifies the completion of the statewide risk-limiting audit on Friday, November 20, 2026. (Sec. 127.201(b-2)).

 NOTE: In an election in which a statewide risk-limiting audit is conducted, the post-election hand count audit must begin not later than the first business day after the Secretary of State has certified the completion of the risk-limiting audit. The deadline to complete the post-   election hand count audit is extended to the 30th day after election day (Thursday, December 3, 2026) or the deadline established by the Secretary of State's Office, whichever is later. Our office will update this entry and release specific guidance on this process, including the official deadline, when we provide our instructions on the post-election hand count audit after election day. 

 
 NOTE - NEW LAW: HB 3526 (2025, R.S.) , effective September 1, 2025, creates new reporting requirements for local entities that order an election to authorize a local government to issue bonds. These reports must be sent to the Texas Bond Review Board . Not later than the 20th day after election day for an election to authorize a local government to issue bonds, the local government shall send the Bond Review Board a report that includes:

 
 
 the total number of votes cast for each bond proposition; 

 the total number of votes in support of each bond proposition;

 the total number of votes against each bond proposition;

 any updated information that is different from what was initially reported to the board; and

 any other information the board determines necessary.

 

 For more information on this requirement, please contact the Texas Bond Review Board .

 
 Tuesday, November 24, 2026 (21st day after Election Day, 18th day before Runoff Election Day)

 
 NEW LAW – NOTE: SB 827 (2025, R.S.): Last day to complete the post-election hand count audit. (Sec. 127.201(a)). Senate Bill 827 renamed the Partial Manual Count to the Post-Election Hand Count Audit, and modifies the procedures for conducting the count. The bill requires the hand count audit of early voting locations and election day locations to be conducted by polling location rather than by precinct. However, it still requires ballots by mail to be counted by precinct. 

 
 The hand count must be conducted in at least one percent of election day polling locations and early voting locations, or in three locations, whichever is greater. For ballots by mail, the count will be performed for at least one percent of the precincts in which a ballot by mail was cast, or in three precincts, whichever is greater.

 
 Not later than the third day after the date the count is completed, the general custodian of election records shall deliver a written report of the results of the count to the Secretary of State and post the results of the count on the county s website in the same location that the county provides information on election returns and election results.
-->

 
 Thursday, November 26, 2026 (23rd day after Election Day, 16th day before Runoff Election Day) (Thanksgiving Day)

 

 
 Friday, November 27, 2026 (24th day after Election Day, 15th day before Runoff Election Day) (Day after Thanksgiving Day)

 

 Monday, November 30, 2026 (27th day after Election Day; 13th day after last canvass, 12th day before Runoff Election Day)

 Last day for the presiding judge of the early voting ballot board to mail Notice of Outcome to Provisional Voter (PDF) to provisional voters, if the canvass was held on Tuesday, November 17, 2026. Such notices must be delivered to provisional voters by the presiding judge no later than the 10th day after the local canvass. (Sec. 65.059; 1 T.A.C. § 81.176(e)).

 This deadline is extended to the next regular business day, which is Monday, November 30, 2026, due to the 10th day after November 17, 2026 falling on the day after Thanksgiving Day, a legal holiday. (Sec. 1.006).

 December

 Thursday, December 3, 2026 (30th day after Election Day, 9th day before Runoff Election Day) 

 NEW LAW – NOTE: SB 827 (2025, R.S.): Last day to complete the post-election hand count audit, unless the Secretary of State's Office establishes a later deadline. (Sec. 127.201(a)).

 NOTE: In an election where a statewide risk-limiting audit (RLA) is conducted, the deadline to complete the post-election hand count audit is extended to the 30th day after election day or the deadline established by the Secretary of State's Office, whichever is later. Our office will update this entry and release specific guidance on this process, including the official deadline, when we provide our instructions on the post-election hand count audit after election day.

 Not later than the third day after the date the count is completed, the general custodian of election records shall deliver a written report of the results of the count to the Secretary of State and post the results of the count on the county’s website in the same location that the county provides information on election returns and election results. 

 Last day to file electronic precinct-by-precinct returns with the Secretary of State. (Sec. 67.017).

 
 NOTE: Local political subdivisions no longer have to submit this information to the Secretary of State.

 
 If a Type A municipal officer-elect fails to qualify for office within 30 days after the date of the officer s election, the office is considered vacant. (Sec. 22.007, Local Government Code).

 
 NOTE – NEW LAW: SB 2217 (2025, R.S.) , effective September 1, 2025, requires the general custodian of election records for an entity that uses an electronic pollbook system for an election to produce certain reports from the pollbook system no later than the 30th day after election day. Those reports must include a combination form report and a report listing all the voters who were accepted to vote in the election, including the voter s polling place and precinct. (Secs. 31.014, 63.0011, 65.057, 66.006, 125.0635, 127.1302, 127.133).

 
 The custodian must prepare a report within 30 days after election day that describes all the information required to be included on a combination form that combines any form used in connection with the acceptance of voters at polling places with each other and to produce a copy of the list of all voters who were accepted to vote, including a reference to the voter s county election precinct and polling location where the voter was accepted to vote.

 
 Post-Election Reconciliation : Not later than the 30th day after election day, the general custodian of election records shall prepare a reconciliation of the total number of votes cast and the total number of voters accepted to vote by personal appearance at each polling place in the custodian's county during the early voting period and on election day respectively. The general custodian of election records shall post the results of this reconciliation on the county s website in the same location that the county provides information on election results. (Sec. 66.005).

 
 NOTE - NEW LAW: HB 521 (2025, R.S.) , effective September 1, 2025, provides that not later than the 30th day after election day, county election officers must forward to the Secretary of State s Office (1) the name and address of the person assisting the voter; (2) the relationship to the voter of the person assisting the voter; and (3) whether the person assisting the voter received or accepted any form of compensation or other benefit from a candidate, campaign, or political committee of any individual who assisted a total of seven or more voters during the early voting period and on election day combined.

 
 Last day for the general custodian of election records to electronically submit to the Secretary of State the record of each voter participating in the election. (Sec. 18.069).

 
 Monday, December 7, 2026 (34th day after Election Day, 5th day before Runoff Election Day)

 Last day for the Governor to conduct the state canvass for the November General Election for state and county officers. Since the actual deadline (the 33rd day) falls on a Sunday, the deadline is moved to the next business day. (Secs. 1.006, 67.012).

 
 Sunday, December 13, 2026 (40th day after Election Day)

 
 Last day of the period for mandatory office hours. See entry for Monday, September 14, 2026. (Sec. 31.122).

 
 2027

 
 January

 
 Friday, January 1, 2027 (1st day after the end of the calendar year in which the election was held)(New Year s Day)

 
 First day that surveillance video of areas containing voted ballots from the November 3, 2026 election may be destroyed IF there is no unresolved election contest.

 
 NOTE - Section 127.1232 provides that in counties with a population of 100,000 or more (or political subdivisions contracting with a county with a population of 100,000 or more), the general custodian of election records shall implement a video surveillance system that retains a record of all areas containing voted ballots: (1) from the time the voted ballots are delivered to the central counting station until the canvass of the precinct election returns; and (2) from the time the voted ballots are delivered to the signature verification committee or early voting ballot board until the canvass of precinct election returns. Video from the surveillance system shall be made available to the public by live stream. The recorded video is considered an election record and shall be retained by the general custodian until the end of the calendar year in which an election is held or until an election contest filed in the county has been resolved, whichever is later. (Sec. 127.1232). See Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2022-10. 

 
 Sunday, January 3, 2027 (61st day after Election Day, 22nd day after Runoff Election Day)

 
 First day that contents of ballot box(es) may be transferred from locked ballot box to separate container for the remainder of the preservation period. (Sec. 66.058(b)).

 
 NOTE - Section 1.012 provides that, on the 61st day after election day, the general custodian of election records shall make the original voted ballots available for public inspection.

 
 NOTE - Our office recommends that the county elections office work closely with its county attorney and its public information division in ensuring that records have been properly redacted before being made publicly available. Please direct any questions about the procedures for responding to a public information request, including the timeframes for such responses, to the Office of the Attorney General via its Open Government Hotline, (877) OPEN TEX (673-6839). See Note 23. 

 
 NOTE - For guidance on retention of electronic voting system media, please see Tex. Sec y of State Election Advisory No. 2019-23 .

 
 Monday, January 11, 2027 (69th day after Election Day, 30th day after Runoff Election Day)

 
 If a Type A municipal officer-elect fails to qualify for office within 30 days after the date of the officer s election, the office is considered vacant. (Sec. 22.007, Local Government Code).

 
 2028

 
 Monday, September 4, 2028 (day after 22 months after November 3, 2026 Election Day)

 Contents of ballot box(es) may be destroyed IF no contest or criminal investigation has arisen (Secs. 1.013, 66.058), and IF no open records request has been filed ( Tex. Att y Gen. ORD-505 (1988) ). 

 
 Note: All election records must be preserved for 22 months from election day, even when there is no federal office on the ballot. (Sec. 66.058).

 
 Notable Exceptions:

 
 Permanent Records : Election results must be permanently maintained in the election register. (Sec. 67.006).

 
 Note: Electronic Voting Systems : See Tex. Sec'y of State Election Advisory No. 2019-23 for preservation procedures for electronic voting systems.

 
 Saturday, November 4, 2028 (day after Two Years after November 3, 2026 Election Day)

 
 Note: Retention of Voter Registration List: County voter registrar must maintain a copy of each voter list prepared for each countywide election for two years after election day. (Sec. 18.011).

 
 Note: Retention of Candidate Applications : Candidate applications must be retained by the governing body for two years after date of election. (Sec. 141.036).

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NEW: SOS Modernization Program 

 SOSDirect - Business Filings 

 Business Copies and Certificates 

 Uniform Commercial Code 

 Texas Businesses Against Trafficking 

 

 

 
 
 VoteTexas.gov - Voter Information 

 Website Policies 

 Open Records 

 Texas.gov 

 Contacts 

 

 
 
 
 Texas State Library & Archives 

 Texas Homeland Security 

 Where the Money Goes 

 Fraud Reporting 

 Texas Veterans Portal
