Pool Reports of September 4, 2026 | The American Presidency Project 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Skip to main content 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 The American Presidency Project 

 
 

 
 About  Search 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Documents Guidebook 

 Category Attributes 

 

 Statistics 

 Media Archive 

 Presidents 

 Analyses 

 GIVE 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 Documents

 
 
 Archive Guidebook 

 Categories 

 Attributes 

 

 
 

 Categories

 
 
 Presidential (255445) Eulogies (71) 

 Executive Orders (10866) 

 Fireside Chats (27) 

 Interviews (1038) 

 Letters (4795) 

 Miscellaneous Written (112) 

 News Conferences (2530) 

 Spoken Addresses and Remarks (35572) 

 Farewell Addresses (12) 

 Inaugural Addresses (63) 

 Memoranda (3499) 

 Messages (12849) 

 Proclamations (11146) 

 Saturday Weekly Addresses (1639) 

 State Dinners (266) 

 State of the Union Addresses (101) 

 State of the Union Written Messages (140) 

 Statements (14723) 

 Vetoes (1230) 

 Citations (13217) 

 Written Presidential Orders (50804) 

 

 Remarks by Administration Officials (189) 

 Elections and Transitions (50266) Campaign Documents (23622) 

 Convention Speeches (128) 

 Debates (191) 

 Party Platforms (105) 

 Transition Documents (744) 

 

 Congressional (13) 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 Donald J. Trump (2nd Term) 
 

 
 
 
 47th President of the United States: 2025—present

 

 

 
 Pool Reports of September 4, 2026

 

 

 
 September 04, 2026 

 
 Pool Reports by David Smith , The Guardian 

 
 
 
 Sent: 
 Reports: 

 
 
 
 September 4, 2026
 12:08 
 
 WH in-town pool report #1/ Lunch lid 

 Greetings from the White House on a warm and sunny day. After an uneventful morning, a lunch lid has been called until 1pm.
 

 
 September 4, 2026
 14:04 
 
 WH in-town pool report #2/ Pool gathers 

 Pool has gathered at the briefing room doors.
 

 
 September 4, 2026
 14:19 
 
 WH in-town pool report #3/ POTUS speaking in Oval Office 

 At 2.13pm the pool was led into the Oval Office, where POTUS is sitting behind the Resolute desk. A group of farmers and ranchers are standing behind.

 POTUS announced action to help farmers and ranchers with meat processing.

 He said: "For years I've heard they have problems with the big processors." They say the four are a "nasty group".

 "People have been asking for this change for decades and we're getting it done."

 Event is ongoing.
 

 
 September 4, 2026
 14:36 
 
 WH in-town pool report #4/ Gray wolves 

 POTUS said he is also signing an order allowing ranchers to protect their own cattle. He spoke to a rancher about the threat from Mexican gray wolves.

 Told by Agriculture Secretary Brooke Rollins that ranchers cannot shoot the wolves because they are an endangered species, POTUS replied: "You can shoot them as of today?"

 Rollins laughed and indicated that the change is not quite so immediate.

 When one rancher mentioned the Canadian gray wolf, POTUS replied: "So let's give them back to Canada."

 The order will also require country of origin labelling.

 The conversation continued and became critical of Arizona Governor Katie Hobbs over sanctuary cities and solar panels.

 POTUS said he ended the Green New Deal. "That was like Russia, Russia, Russia. Total hoax."

 He added: "I'm going to sign two executive orders that are going to be very earthshaking from the standpoint of positivity for our ranchers and for our farmers, who I love."

 Event is ongoing with others now speaking.
 

 
 September 4, 2026
 14:45 
 
 WH in-town pool report #5/ POTUS takes questions 

 Asked about JD Vance saying the Iran conflict is not a war, POTUS replied: "A lot of people don't call it a war. I call it a military conflict. It's small potatoes for us… We do intermittent strikes… We're not fighting right now."

 When pressed by a reporter, he asked: "How long were we in Vietnam?"

 He continued: "We took out all the mines… I don't think it matters what you call it. What matters is we had tremendous success."

 Earlier POTUS said: "People were screaming at me about the egg prices and we brought them way down… We inherited these high prices. We inherited the worst inflation in the history of our country from the Biden administration."

 He complained that today's positive job numbers will cause the stock market to go down. "Growth does not cause inflation. Stupidly causes inflation."

 He said: "We're building more plants and factories today than at any time in the history of our country… We could have a GDP that would break every single record."

 Questions are ongoing.
 

 
 September 4, 2026
 15:07 
 
 WH in-town pool report #6/ POTUS questions finish 

 Asked when his Super PAC will spend on the midterms, POTUS said: "We already did. I think I have close to a billion dollars in the Super PAC."

 He said he think Republicans can do well. "I'm going to spend whatever amount of money is necessary."

 Asked about Kushner and Witkoff's trip to Moscow, POTUS said: "They're bringing with them a plan to end the war." POTUS complained about not winning the Nobel Peace Prize.

 "It's a personality problem in Russia-Ukraine." He said Putin and Zelensky hate each other.

 He warned that, unless it is smart, Iran "is going to end up with a Hormuz strait that is not very necessary any more". Pipelines are getting built.

 He defended data centers and AI and previewed Chinese President Xi's visit. "We're going to have a state dinner… He and I have a very good relationship."

 Pool was ushered out of the Oval Office at 3.04pm. More details to follow.
 

 
 September 4, 2026
 15:46 
 
 WH in-town pool report #7/ POTUS on Iran in detail 

 Here is POTUS's full response to the first question on Iran.

 Question: "Mr President, the Vice President said yesterday that he would not describe the conflict with Iran as a war. But the US resumed strikes for the first time in recent weeks. Can you explain to the American people: if this is not a war, what exactly is it?"

 POTUS replied: "Well, I tell you what. A lot of people don't call it a war. I call it a military conflict because it's small potatoes for us. It's not a big thing. We did Venezuela and we did this. In Venezuela we lost nobody. In this we lost 18 people and in Vietnam we lost 100,000 people and in other conflicts you lost tens of thousands of people.

 "I would say that it's intermittent. We do intermittent strikes. I heard what he said and it was interesting because I think that there's a lot of truth to it. We're not fighting right now. There's no fighting. We're taking out a lot of oil, we control the Hormuz Strait, we control it very strongly. We did a hit on certain areas around the Hormuz Strait. We took our their radars, as you know, you know that very well.

 "We took out some aircraft. We took out some other things that for them used to protect the Hormuz Strait when they had it under very tight control but now we control it and we're taking out - last night we took a lot of boats. A lot of ships came through and they come through every day. So I can understand what he's saying. It's a military conflict but it's very intermittent. I could see somebody not calling it a war."

 The reporter followed up, saying it does not feel like "small potatoes" as 18 service members have died and there are record long deployments.

 POTUS responded: "Why is it record long? How long were we in Vietnam? How long were we in Vietnam? How long were we in Vietnam? We're at five months now. And you know what we did in five months? They're not going to have a nuclear weapon. That's what we did. Iran will not have a nuclear weapon because if they did you probably wouldn't be standing here very long. Iran will not have a nuclear weapon. We've stopped them from having.

 "We may hit Pickaxe very soon because if there was anything going on with Pickaxe. But because of all of the things - you know, we're leading in space now by a lot. When I first took over in my first term, we were a distant third to Russia and to China. We're leading in space. We know everybody that's moving at Pickaxe. We know everybody that's moving everywhere all over Iran and, if anything goes bad, we hit 'em, we hit 'em hard.

 "But we've been in there for five months and in five months what did we do? We stopped them from having a nuclear weapon. If we didn't go in there you wouldn't have Israel right now. You wouldn't have the Middle East and they probably would go at European cities and our cities next. But we stopped them from having a nuclear weapon.

 "And you know what? We lost 18 souls, 18 great souls. I was there to greet the families of those people at Dover and they're great. I got very friendly with some of the families. They're incredible families. One is too much but in Vietnam we lost tens of thousands of people. In Afghanistan we lost a lot. Sleepy Joe Biden lost 13 just by standing at an airport, an airport that they shouldn't have been at because they should have used Bagram, not the local little airport right in the middle of the city. They lost 13 but they lost 78 people in terms of their arms, their legs, their face was just wiped out. You don't mention that. You don't mention that.

 "What we've done is amazing. We took over Venezuela and we have essentially taken over Iran. Now, there's been no shooting for days. Before the hit that we gave them the other night to wipe out their – they had radar, very sophisticated, they brought in radar because we knocked it out once, now we knocked it out twice, now we don't notice any activity. I think they're tired of putting it in and getting blown –.

 "But the Strait of Hormuz is taking a lot of ships. We're getting a lot of ships out of there. A lot of oil is coming out of the Strait. There are no mines whatsoever. We have no mines. You know why? We took out all the mines. They had some mines. We took 'em all with our minesweepers – they go underwater, nobody can see them, the best in the world. So we're doing a great job and I would say it's a military conflict, if you want. Some people could call it – I don't think it matters what you call it. What matters is the fact we have had tremendous success. We've stopped Iran from having a nuclear weapon."
 

 
 September 4, 2026
 16:07 
 
 WH in-town pool report #8/ POTUS on Air Force One, data centers and China in detail 

 Some more detailed comments from POTUS in the Oval Office on three topics:

 Air Force One 

 Question: "Does the new Air Force One still need to be maxed out? Is it safe to fly to Ireland?"

 POTUS: "Yeah, it's going to go away and it's a magnificent plane. Interior-wise, the best. Engine is the best. Oh yeah, no, it's, well, it has a lot of stuff, but to max it out, meaning you can go into any territory, it'll take about 60 days and it's being sent in October to be maxed out."

 Question: "And what do you plan to do with the plane after you leave office?"

 POTUS: "It'll probably go to the museum."

 Question: "Probably. Is that up in the air at this point?"

 POTUS: "I haven't made a decision, but it will probably go to the museum. It's scheduled to go to the museum.""

 Question: "If it doesn't go to the museum, what would you do with it?"

 POTUS: "I think it's going to the museum."

 Data centers 

 Question: "What is your message to communities who say they don't like data centers?"

 POTUS replied: "Well, I look at data centers very, very carefully. I mean, being formerly in the real estate business, I was really good at real estate, and I can tell you, if I were running a state or a town, if I was a mayor or governor, I would want as many data centers as I can because they throw off tremendous amounts of money. They don't take any energy because the new ones that I approved all create their own energy. We're giving them the right to build their own power plant so they don't have to use the grid.

 "They're actually taking their excess energy and they're building some incredible plants along with the building, so they're building their own generation plant and the excess is going back into the grid. So we're actually making money on that. It's going to bring energy costs down. The data centers: you want to put them in the right location, but if you want to get rich as a state or as a town and if you want to pay lower taxes, if you want to create tremendous wealth, if you want your house to be more valuable and everything else, you're going to want a data center. If you want to go through poverty, crime, and squalor, I would say don't approve data centers, you know, you have your choice.

 "So I'm all for people approving them or not, but if you look at places that have really gotten wealthy and rich and lower taxes, it's where properly approved data centers have been allowed to go up. Now, if they don't approve them, there's a lot of places that want them, both in this country and in particular in China. All over the world they want them. So I don't like seeing where that opportunity would be squandered, and the people that squandered are going to come back in five years and say, wow, we made a big mistake because that place is located at a different location and everybody's gotten rich. So I think if you want success, you have to go with the data center.

 "You want them to be proper. You want to check them for sound and all the different things. But again they create their own electricity, so you're not going to have a problem there. The water is, is going to be, they do them in so many different ways, including desalinization and everything else. These data centers are making a fortune for people that live relatively near them. It doesn't mean you want to be right in their backyard, but for people that live in the area of data centers they've been an unbelievable success."

 Question: "Do you have any concerns about AI veering out of control and launching cyber attacks?""

 POTUS said: "No, we watch it very carefully. We're leading China in AI and, whoever wins AI, wins. That's the power. This is bigger than the internet. This is a revolution. We've had a few of them over the last 200 years but this is a revolution. I've seen some results that are incredible medically. We're coming up with things medically that we wouldn't have maybe in 100 years. Whoever wins with AI wins and right now it's really between China and us."

 China 

 Question: When President Xi of China visits, what do you hope to accomplish?

 POTUS said: "Well, President Xi is coming on September 24th. We look forward to it. He's a great gentleman. We get along great. We have a very good trading relationship and you know they're a competitor and all of that, but we have a very good relationship with President Xi. He's coming with his beautiful wife. She's a beautiful woman and a great woman, respected all over the world.

 "They're coming together and we have a beautiful heliport should you want to use a helicopter, just open. In fact, if you want to go outside and check it out, it's beautiful. Just was completed under budget, ahead of schedule, and beautiful.

 "But he is coming on September 24th and we're going to have a state dinner, and we're going to do great things with China. We've been doing very well with China. China took advantage of us for years. I don't blame them; we had people that were not smart sitting behind this desk, but we've done very well with China. China and I have a very good relation - he and I have a very good relationship."
 

 
 
 

 Pool Reports below by Kerry Picket , The Washington Times 

 
 
 
 Sent: 
 Reports: 

 
 
 
 September 4, 2026
 15:18 
 
 Out-of-town pool report 1: Pool Gathering 

 Good afternoon from your out-of-town pool for weekend travel to Bedminster, NJ.

 We are gathered at the stake out location for motorcade departure and will soon be loading into vans.
 

 
 September 4, 2026
 15:35 
 
 Out-of-town pool report 2: Departure to JBA delayed 

 Pool is back in the briefing room at 3:33 p.m. after briefly loading onto a van. We are now holding in the briefing room.
 

 
 September 4, 2026
 16:09 
 
 Out-of-town pool report 2a : Departure to JBA delayed (clarification) 

 Just to clarify, the delay in departure to JBA was a result of an independent press movement not a delay due to POTUS.
 

 
 September 4, 2026
 16:21 
 
 Out-of-town pool report 3: Pool Gathering again 

 We are gathered again at the stake out location for motorcade departure to JBA and will shortly be loading into vans.
 

 
 September 4, 2026
 16:50 
 
 Out-of-town pool report 4: Motorcade rolling 

 Pool loaded on to a van at 4:25 p.m., and the motorcade began rolling at 4:49 p.m. to JBA.
 

 
 September 4, 2026
 17:14 
 
 Out-of-town pool note 5: arrival at JBA and wheels up 

 The motorcade arrived at JBA at 5:08 p.m.following an uneventful ride.

 POTUS gave the thumbs up and a fist pump before he boarded AF1.

 Consider this your wheels up notice.
 

 
 September 4, 2026
 18:02 
 
 Out-of-town pool note 6: Wheels down 

 AF1 landed at Morristown Airport at 5:57 p.m. after a 33 minute flight.

 It was an uneventful ride, and no visitors came to the press cabin.
 

 
 September 4, 2026
 18:19 
 
 Out-of-town pool note 7: POTUS deplanes AF1 / M1 lifts off 

 The president deplaned AF1 at 6:10 pm did not stop to take questions after disembarking. He boarded M1 and lifted off at 6:17 pm.
 

 
 September 4, 2026
 18:30 
 
 Out-of-town pool note 8: Motorcade rolling 

 Pool loaded into vans and left Morristown Airport at about 6:20 pm.
 

 
 September 4, 2026
18:41 
 
 Out-of-town pool note 9: M1 arrival and a Lid 

 White House says M1 touched down at 6:29 PM EDT at Bedminster.

 We have a lid. 
 

 
 
 

 
 Donald J. Trump (2nd Term), Pool Reports of September 4, 2026 Online by Gerhard Peters and John T. Woolley, The American Presidency Project https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/node/396475
 

 

 
 
 
 Filed Under
 

 Categories
 Pool Reports 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 twitter 
 facebook 
 linkedin 
 google+ 
 email 
 

 
 

 Basic Search (case Sensitive!)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 # per page 
 5 10 25 50 100 
 
 

 
 
 
 Apply 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report a Typo
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 The American Presidency Project 
John Woolley and Gerhard Peters
 Contact 

 
 

 
 Twitter Facebook 

 
 

 
 Copyright The American Presidency Project
 Terms of Service | Privacy | Accessibility
