Ministers Champagne, Joly, Hajdu and Solomon to announce Canadian response to U.S. tariffs - Canada.ca

Media advisory
August 24, 2026
Ottawa, Ontario – The Minister of Finance and National Revenue, the Honourable François-Philippe Champagne, the Minister of Industry and Minister responsible for Canada Economic Development for Quebec Regions, the Honourable Mélanie Joly, the Minister of Jobs and Families and Minister responsible for the Federal Economic Development Agency for Northern Ontario, the Honourable Patty Hajdu, and the Minister of Artificial Intelligence and Digital Innovation and Minister responsible for the Federal Economic Development Agency for Southern Ontario, the Honourable Evan Solomon, will visit a local business and hold a joint press conference to announce new measures to protect and support Canadian workers and businesses during these challenging times.
Prior to the press conference, media are invited to attend a background technical briefing with Government of Canada officials.
Date:
Tuesday, August 25, 2026 (all times local)
Media Technical Briefing
Format: Hybrid (virtual and in-person)
Time: 9:00 a.m.
Zoom link: to be provided to registered media by the Parliamentary Press Gallery
Location:
National Press Theatre, Room 325
180 Wellington Street, Ottawa, Ontario
Notes for the media:
Access will be for accredited members of the Press Gallery only. Media who are not members of the Press Gallery may contact pressres2@parl.gc.ca.
See additional details below.
Site Visit and Press Conference
Site visit: 10:30 a.m.
Press conference: 11:00 a.m.
Notes for the media:
Media are asked to arrive no later than 10:00 a.m. to take part in the site visit (photo and b-roll opportunity) and no later than 10:30 a.m. to attend the press conference.
Because this is an active worksite, closed-toe shoes are required. Registration is mandatory. Please register by contacting mediare@fin.gc.ca.
More information will be provided upon registration.
Additional information for the background technical briefing
Embargo Terms
By participating, media understand and agree to the terms of the embargo. The embargo on the documents and information provided will remain in effect until the press conference begins later that morning in Ottawa. Participants will not publicly discuss or release the materials or information in any manner until the embargo is lifted.
The technical briefing will be on background only and on a not-for-attribution basis. Should the terms of the embargo be breached, participants and/or their organizations may not be permitted to participate in future Government of Canada embargoed briefings.
In Person
Accredited media representatives who wish to take part in the technical briefing in person at the National Press Theatre must arrive 15 minutes in advance to sign in and present photo ID and credentials. Photo ID must be visible at all times.
Accessing Embargoed Documents
Participants should contact Media Relations at the Department of Finance at mediare@fin.gc.ca to receive briefing materials in advance. By receiving materials in advance, participants agree to keep them under embargo until the embargo is lifted, as per above.
Contacts
Media may contact:
John Fragos
Press Secretary
Office of the Minister of Finance and National Revenue
john.fragos@fin.gc.ca
Media Relations
Department of Finance Canada
mediare@fin.gc.ca
613-369-4000
Stay Connected
- Follow us on Facebook
- Follow us on X – @FinanceCanada
- Follow us on LinkedIn
- Add our RSS feeds to your feed reader