Projects and transformative strategies - Major Projects Office - Canada.ca

18 projects
9 transformative strategies
337,000 jobs
$192 billion in new investment
$500 billion in future private sector investment
18 projects
9 transformative strategies
337,000 jobs
$192 billion in new investment
$500 billion in future private sector investment
Projects
Projects referred to the Major Projects Office by the Government of Canada are ones with identified proponents and require federal coordination and support to succeed. Our office works with proponents, provinces and territories, Indigenous Peoples, and federal partners to recommend the best course to complete project approvals and get these projects built faster.
Project list
See the list of referred projects and their latest updates.
Project referral process
Learn about how projects are referred to us.
Support for projects
Learn about the types of support provided for referred projects.
Transformative strategies
Transformative strategies are early-stage initiatives or concepts specific to a region or sector. They have the potential to significantly strengthen Canada’s economy but require further development before specific projects can proceed.
These strategies align with national priorities such as growth, security, market diversification, and reconciliation.
Transformative strategies can help:
- Canada realize its full potential as an energy superpower
- create new trade and economic corridors to diversify our economy
- build Canada’s leadership in critical minerals to increase our sovereignty
- support efforts to build sustainably, with low-carbon investments that make Canada more competitive
- establish our data sovereignty to serve Canadians safely and securely
- give Canadians access to new opportunities, better careers, and a more affordable cost of living
- Canada build inclusively, in full partnership with First Nations, Inuit, and Métis
Transformative strategies list
See the list of referred transformative strategies and their latest updates.
Referral process for transformative strategies
Learn how transformative strategies are identified and referred to us.
Support for transformative strategies
Learn about our work to support transformative strategies.
Page details
- Date modified: