Press Conference by Foreign Minister MOTEGI Toshimitsu | Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan

Press Conferences
Press Conference by Foreign Minister MOTEGI Toshimitsu
Wednesday, October 22, 2025, 11:39 a.m. Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Japanese
Opening Remarks
On Taking Office as Minister for Foreign Affairs
Foreign Minister MOTEGI Toshimitsu: I have been appointed as Minister for Foreign Affairs. Having previously served as Foreign Minister for approximately two years from September 2019, I am returning to this position after four years. I look forward to once again working with all of you, including the members of the press.
Compared to my previous tenure as Foreign Minister, the international situation and the security environment surrounding Japan have become even more severe, and the international situation is becoming increasingly complex. In addition to Russia’s aggression against Ukraine and the unstable situation in the Middle East, there have also been worrisome developments in areas surrounding Japan, including China’s diplomatic stance and military activities, as well as North Korea’s nuclear development and growing cooperation between North Korea, China and Russia.
At the same time, I feel that the international community’s expectations toward Japanese diplomacy are greater than ever before. By fulfilling Japan’s roles and responsibilities expected by the international community, we intend to protect our national interests and enhance Japan’s presence in the international community with diplomacy unique to Japan that I call “vigorous diplomacy with broad perspective”. I will take the lead, with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MOFA) working as one team, to advance this diplomacy.
I believe what is required of foreign policy are proactiveness, continuity, and multifaceted development that responds to changes in the international environment.
Specifically, first, the Japan-US Alliance. We need to further deepen the alliance and further strengthen its deterrence and response capabilities. In addition to that, we intend to strengthen the network of diplomatic and security cooperation with countries such as Australia, India, the Republic of Korea (ROK), the Philippines, and European countries, capitalizing on the various frameworks we have established so far.
Second, the “Free and Open Indo-Pacific” (FOIP), which Japan has been advocating to the world. We intend to position FOIP as a pillar of Japanese diplomacy and to evolve it in accordance with the changes of the times. To enable this, we will work closely with our ally, like-minded nations, as well as countries in the Global South through multifaceted efforts.
Furthermore, having led the negotiations for economic partnership agreements with various countries, such as the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) and the Japan-U.S. Trade Agreement, I will promote a multifaceted economic diplomacy, alongside enhancing economic security initiatives, including strengthening the resilience of supply chains.
Additionally, I will be responsible for coordinating with the U.S., including the implementation of the Japan-U.S. agreement on tariff measures. Building on my experience with the Japan-U.S. trade negotiations, I aim to make efforts toward the faithful and steady implementation of the agreement, and thereby, promote mutual benefits, advance Japan-U.S. cooperation toward ensuring economic security, and promote Japan’s economic growth.
Starting this weekend, the ASEAN-related summit meetings are scheduled to begin, followed by President Trump’s visit to Japan. With important diplomatic schedules forthcoming, I, along with Prime Minister TAKAICHI, intend to engage in candid dialogues with our counterparts, share views on the international situation, and build personal relationships of trust.
That concludes my opening remarks.
Diplomatic Goals
Kyodo News, AYUKAWA: Congratulation on your appointment. In your opening remarks, you mentioned that the international situation is becoming more severe. Now that you have assumed office again as Foreign Minister after four years, what kind of Japanese diplomacy would you like to pursue? For example, U.S. President Trump has shown willingness to achieve a ceasefire in Russia’s aggression against Ukraine as well as to hold a U.S.-North Korea Summit meeting. If you have any specific goals that you would like to achieve as Japan’s Foreign Minister, could you please share them with us?
Foreign Minister MOTEGI: I believe President Trump has expressed his intention to address, and is actually addressing, a range of international challenges, rather than focusing on specific themes or areas. Rather than specific goals or achievements, I believe what is essential to foreign policy is, as I mentioned earlier, proactiveness, continuity, and a multifaceted development that responds to changes in the international environment. I intend to place particular emphasis on the multifaceted development of Japanese diplomacy.
In my opening remarks, I highlighted three major areas concerning what to develop in a multifaceted manner. I would like to put particular effort into these areas.
Diplomacy with Neighboring Countries
Yomiuri Shimbun, UEMURA: Congratulation on your appointment. I would like to ask about how you, as Foreign Minister in the TAKAICHI administration, will conduct diplomacy with neighboring countries. While Japan and the ROK have maintained friendly relations in recent years, there remain potential flashpoints, including Takeshima and historical issues. How will you maintain and strengthen the momentum of improving bilateral relations? In addition, how do you plan to confront and strive to resolve concerns with China, with which serious issues remain, including the human rights issues such as the detention of Japanese nationals, as well as intrusions into Japan’s territorial waters surrounding the Senkaku Islands? Please tell us about your diplomatic policy.
Foreign Minister MOTEGI: Thank you for your question on neighboring countries, mainly the ROK and China.
As for ROK, Japan and the ROK are important neighbors which should work as partners on the challenges facing the international community, and the Japan-ROK relations have improved significantly in the current strategic environment. I believe the importance of the Japan-ROK relations is increasing even more.
While difficult issues and challenges exist between Japan and the ROK precisely because we are neighboring countries, I would like to significantly develop the Japan-ROK relations in a future-oriented manner, founded on the bilateral relationship that has been built since the normalization of diplomatic relations in 1965.
I believe that, among Japan, the U.S., and the ROK, the coordination on North Korea is of utmost importance, but it is also important to work together more closely from a strategic perspective, to advance cooperation in the areas of security and economic security.
From this perspective, we will leverage opportunities, including shuttle diplomacy at the summit level, which is already under way, and work on building even better Japan-ROK relations while maintaining close communication between the two countries at various levels.
As for China, I believe it is true that there are concerns and issues, including the points you mentioned. Precisely for this reason, it is necessary to conduct candid talks through which Japan will maintain and assert its position and call for responsible actions by the Chinese side. On this basis, we will cooperate in areas where we can cooperate. I would like to conduct such realistic diplomacy.
To date, the Japanese and Chinese leaders have confirmed a broad direction of building a “Mutually Beneficial Relationship Based on Common Strategic Interests” and “constructive and stable Japan-China relations.” Under this broad direction, we will further enhance communication, and through mutual efforts, reduce issues and concerns and increase understanding and cooperation.
Visit to Japan by U.S. President Trump
Jiji Press, CHIBA: Congratulations on your appointment. My question is about President Trump. Chief Cabinet Secretary KIHARA just announced at a press conference that President Trump will be visiting Japan. I have three related questions on the visit. I understand there is a possibility that Secretary Rubio may also visit Japan along with President Trump. In addition to the Summit Meeting, what events are expected, including your schedule? Furthermore, as Prime Minister TAKAICHI mentioned yesterday, please tell us the significance of this visit and Summit Meeting taking place soon after the inauguration of Japan’s new Prime Minister. Lastly, President Trump has consistently called on allies to increase their defense budgets. If such topics are raised during the meeting, how will Japan respond? Could you share your views on these three points?
Foreign Minister MOTEGI: Thank you for your questions regarding President Trump’s visit to Japan. President Trump will visit Japan from October 27 to October 29, and Japan welcomes his visit.
The Japan-U.S. Summit Meeting scheduled to take place during this visit will be the first in-person meeting between Prime Minister TAKAICHI and President Trump. We intend to make this an excellent opportunity for the two leaders to build a personal relationship of trust, to further strengthen the Japan-U.S. Alliance, and to work together toward realizing FOIP.
We are making appropriate preparations for President Trump’s visit. Regarding the defense buildup you mentioned, first, we believe that this should be carried out based on Japan’s independent decision under the fundamental stance that Japan protects itself on its own. In addition, what is important is not the amounts or percentage of GDP but the content of the defense capabilities, and defense spending will be built up accordingly.
For example, as seen in the recent war in Ukraine, we are witnessing new forms of warfare, such as the mass deployment of unmanned aerial vehicles. We consider responding to such new forms of warfare and fundamentally reinforcing defense capabilities in cyber security are becoming increasingly important. Based on such perspectives and the increasingly severe security environment, Japan will work on the fundamental reinforcement of defense capabilities based on the National Security Strategy as the top priority. We will also proceed with the review of the three strategic documents as a subject for future consideration. We intend to firmly communicate these policies and efforts of Japan to the U.S.
As for myself, while I would like to meet with Secretary Rubio in person as early as possible, no specific date has been set.
In any case, in light of the increasingly severe security environment, I believe it is important to continue coordinating with the U.S. to further strengthen the deterrence and response capabilities of the Japan-U.S. Alliance.
Situation in Ukraine and Japan’s Diplomacy toward Russia
Foreign Minister MOTEGI: Russia’s aggression against Ukraine is an outrageous act that shakes the very foundation of the international order.
The security of Europe and the Indo-Pacific is inseparable, and Japan, with the strong concern that “Ukraine today may be East Asia tomorrow,” has provided assistance to Ukraine and imposed sanctions against Russia.
Regarding support for Ukraine, we have announced and steadily implemented a total amount of more than USD 12 billion in support so far. We will continue to make firm efforts in various fields, including assistance for recovery and reconstruction, while coordinating closely with the international community.
The Ukraine Mine Action Conference started in Tokyo at 9:00 a.m. this morning, and I also attended the opening session earlier. Accelerating mine action is connected to the Ukraine’s recovery and reconstruction. Unless landmines are removed and the land is made safe again, recovery and reconstruction will not progress. I believe we need to connect these efforts seamlessly. Furthermore, through such conferences, we also intend to raise international momentum for supporting Ukraine.
Regarding sanctions against Russia, we will comprehensively examine what would be effective in achieving a just and lasting peace in Ukraine and what would serve Japan’s national interests, while coordinating with the G7 and the international community.
Japan intends to continue to work steadfastly in coordination with the international community, including the G7, to achieve a just and lasting peace in Ukraine as soon as possible.
For Ukraine, Japan will continue to provide various assistance, and firmly support lasting peace as well as recovery and reconstruction under that peace. Meanwhile, toward achieving an early ceasefire among others, we will take resolute actions against Russia, including sanctions. This is Japan’s basic approach.
That being said, regarding relations with Russia, as you mentioned, I held meetings with Foreign Minister Lavrov many times on this issue during my tenure as Foreign Minister. I remember holding consultations with him for eight hours when I visited Russia in late December 2019. Now, due to Russia’s aggression against Ukraine, Japan-Russia relations are currently in a severe situation, and regrettably, we are not in a position to provide any specific details or concrete progress on peace treaty negotiations at this point.
However, the Government will uphold its policy of resolving the issue of the attribution of the Four Northern Islands and concluding a peace treaty. As you pointed out, there are many pending issues between Japan and Russia that must be resolved as neighboring countries, and it is essential to communicate appropriately with the Russian side.
The resumption of the Northern Territories Exchange and Visit Program is one of our top priorities. In particular, considering the earnest wishes of the elderly former residents of the islands, the resumption of visits to graves in the Northern Territories is an extremely humanitarian issue, and the Government intends to persistently engage the Russian side with a sense of urgency.
Japan-U.S. Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA)
Ryukyu Shimpo, JAHANA: I would like to ask about the revision of the Japan-U.S. Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA). I understand that former Prime Minister ISHIBA was eager to revise it, but the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) seems reluctant to pursue such revision. On the other hand, Japan Innovation Party, the LDP’s coalition partner, has indicated its view for fundamental revision of SOFA. Although the fundamental revision is not included in the 12 policy demands that Japan Innovation Party presented to the LDP as requirements for the coalition agreement, could you share your current views on whether Japan will undertake a fundamental revision or pursue improvements in operation?
Foreign Minister MOTEGI: First, to the best of my recollection, Former Prime Minister ISHIBA expressed his desire to revise the Japan-U.S. SOFA before he took office as Prime Minister. Regarding the Japan-U.S. SOFA, the Government has addressed specific issues one by one through the most appropriate measures that enable effective and quick responses according to the nature of the matters and cases that need to be addressed.
For example, the Government concluded two supplementary agreements, one in 2015 on environmental stewardship and one in 2017 on the civilian component.
On the Japan-U.S. SOFA, while we are fully aware that there are various opinions, including those of Japan Innovation Party, the Government intends to constantly explore how the Japan-U.S. SOFA should be structured, by building on these efforts we have made thus far.
Diplomacy toward China
Hong Kong Phoenix TV, Li: I would like to ask about China. Earlier, you mentioned the broad direction, stating that Japan will build a Mutually Beneficial Relationship Based on Common Strategic Interests as well as constructive and stable Japan-China relations. Regarding diplomacy toward China under the TAKAICHI administration, please tell us if there are any changes from the previous policy toward China. In addition, I would like to ask what kind of basic policies Japan will adopt toward China. In addition, as this year marks the 80th year since the end of World War II, could you also tell us whether the TAKAICHI administration will uphold the Statement by Prime Minister MURAYAMA Tomiichi, which acknowledged Japan’s war of aggression?
Foreign Minister MOTEGI: I understand that we will uphold the Statement by Prime Minister ABE Shinzo on the 70th anniversary of the end of the war.
As for relations with China, as I stated earlier, through dialogue, Japan will assert its position and call for responsible actions. On this basis, we will cooperate in areas where we can cooperate. In addition, to reiterate what I said before, we will endeavor to advance the Mutually Beneficial Relationship Based on Common Strategic Interests and the relationship that has been built between the leaders and governments to date.
Diplomacy of the New Coalition Government
Yomiuri Shimbun, UEMURA: This will be your second time serving as Foreign Minister. How do you intend to draw on your previous experience or the insights you have accumulated since then in carrying out your work this time around? Please share your hopes as well Additionally, a new coalition government has been formed with Japan Innovation Party, and the written agreement on the coalition includes a section on foreign policy. Please share your thoughts on how the new LDP-Japan Innovation Party coalition government will be promoting and conducting its foreign policy. Thank you.
Foreign Minister MOTEGI: I may be repeating much of what I stated earlier, but having served as Foreign Minister for two years, from 2019 to 2021. I intend to fully draw on the experience I gained during that period in carrying out diplomacy going forward. At the same time, new situations have emerged over these last four years, such as Russia’s aggression against Ukraine, frequent outbreaks of conflicts in various regions, the issue of divisions in the international community, and the Global South gaining a greater voice. My fundamental approach is to further strengthen multifaceted diplomacy that can adapt to these new situations.
Situation in North Korea (Abductions Issue)
Sankei Shimbun, NAGAHARA: I would like to ask about the abductions of Japanese citizens by North Korea. Regarding the abductions issue, Prime Minister TAKAICHI indicated an intention to devote herself wholeheartedly to bringing back all of the abductees to Japan at the same time. Can you once again tell us about your determination to resolve the abductions issue? Furthermore, with President Trump’s visit to Japan coming up, as well as a series of international conferences on the horizon, how do you intend to seize these opportunities to work toward a resolution?
Foreign Minister MOTEGI: The abductions issue is a matter of the sovereignty of Japan and an issue that cannot be overlooked from a humanitarian perspective.
Moreover, with the abductees and their families aging and some of them passing away, this is an issue that can afford no further delay. The Government will work as one in exerting all possible efforts to realize the return of all abductees as early as possible.
Diplomacy with Neighboring Countries
Kyodo News, AYUKAWA: I have additional question on Japan’s relations with China and the ROK. Yesterday, Prime Minister TAKAICHI stated during her press conference that she wished to and looked forward to the opportunity to hold a meeting with the President of the ROKin particular. I believe that among the upcoming important diplomatic events, there is the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting in the ROK. Firstly, I would like to ask the status of coordinating a meeting between the ROK President and the Prime Minister on this occasion. Secondly, , there will likely be an occasion the Prime Minister will be at the same forum attended by President Xi Jinping of China. I would also like to ask if Japan is making any specific approaches to arranging a Japan-China Summit meeting. In addition, as part of your diplomacy with neighboring countries, could you tell us, for example, whether you wish to realize a meeting with your Chinese and ROK counterparts as soon as possible?
Foreign Minister MOTEGI: Regarding a summit meeting between Japan and the ROK and between Japan and China, I understand that nothing has been decided at this time. However, as a matter of course, I believe it is extremely important to meet in person at an appropriate time to convey Japan’s concerns and promote cooperation in areas where the countries can cooperate, as I mentioned earlier. I hope that meetings with my foreign minister counterparts can be realized as early as possible, regardless of the timing.
Visit to Japan by U.S. President Trump (Defense)
AFP, HASEGAWA: I have a follow-up question on President Trump’s visit to Japan. You stated that, if the issue of defense spending is raised, the discussion would not give priority to numerical targets. Related to this matter, you also stated that Japan would explain its plans for revising its three strategic documents, including the National Security Strategy. Does this mean that Japan will be increasing defense spending based on the content of the documents, irrespective of numerical targets?
Foreign Minister MOTEGI: As I mentioned earlier, there are already the three strategic documents, including the National Security Strategy, and we are in the process of fundamentally reinforcing Japan’s defense capabilities in accordance with these documents. This is currently in progress. At the same time, we will revise them in the future at an appropriate timing. Prime Minister TAKAICHI also stated that she would like to consider and give instructions for the revision of the three strategic documents. What I meant was that Japan will be explaining its perspective, policy and approach, including Prime Minister’s perspectives and instructions.
ASEAN-related Meetings
Yomiuri Shimbun, UEMURA: As you stated, there are a series of important diplomatic schedules at the end of this month. When is your first overseas visit scheduled? Also, ASEAN-related meetings will be held soon, and the Prime Minister is expected to attend them. Will you also be attending them? Thank you.
Foreign Minister MOTEGI: I understand that the Prime Minister is scheduled to attend the ASEAN-related meetings. As you know, there are several ASEAN-related summit meetings to be held in Malaysia, not just one. In this context, I would like to coordinate my schedule as well.