Signing Ceremony for the Agreement on Cooperation with regard to the Implementation Practices relating to the Civilian Component of the U.S. Armed Forces in Japan, Supplementary to the Status of U.S. Forces Agreement (SOFA) and Informal Talks Between Foreign Minister Kishida and U.S. Ambassador Kennedy | Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan

Press Releases
Signing Ceremony for the Agreement on Cooperation with regard to the Implementation Practices relating to the Civilian Component of the U.S. Armed Forces in Japan, Supplementary to the Status of U.S. Forces Agreement (SOFA) and Informal Talks Between Foreign Minister Kishida and U.S. Ambassador Kennedy
On January 16, commencing at around 3 p.m. for approximately 15 minutes, a signing ceremony took place at the Iikura Guest House for the Agreement on Cooperation with regard to the Implementation Practices relating to the Civilian Component of the U.S. Armed Forces in Japan, supplementary to the Status of U.S. Forces Agreement (SOFA). Mr. Fumio Kishida, Minister for Foreign Affairs, then held informal talks commencing at 3:15 p.m. for approximately 30 minutes with Ms. Caroline Kennedy, U.S. Ambassador. The overview is as follows.
1. Minister Kishida and Ambassador Kennedy respectively gave opening remarks, following which they signed the Agreement on Cooperation with regard to the Implementation Practices relating to the Civilian Component of the U.S. Armed Forces in Japan , supplementary to the SOFA(PDF).
2. Afterwards, Minister Kishida and Ambassador Kennedy held informal talks in light of the Ambassador’s departure.
Minister Kishida expressed gratitude for the significant deepening of the Japan-U.S. relationship during Ambassador Kennedy’s tenure. He attributed the arrangement of visits by Mr. Barack Obama, President of the United States, to Hiroshima and Mr. Shinzo Abe, Prime Minister of Japan, to Pearl Harbor and progress on various matters related to Okinawa to Ambassador Kennedy’s impressive energy and her personality. He expressed respect for Ambassador Kennedy’s accomplishments in the Japan-U.S. relationship and reiterated his appreciation.
In response, Ambassador Kennedy commented that she was pleased to have the opportunity to work on strengthening the Japan-U.S. alliance together with Minister Kishida, and that she hoped to contribute to the future of the Japan-U.S. alliance even after leaving her current post.
3. After the informal talks, Minister Kishida presented Ambassador Kennedy with Tsugaru-lacquered chopsticks, a folding fan, and wine. Ambassador Kennedy gave Minister Kishida a photo panel of herself with President Obama folding paper cranes together in Iwakuni on the occasion of President Obama’s Hiroshima trip.