Message from Commander, U.S. Forces Japan, on Service Member Conduct > U.S. Forces Japan > Article View

Official websites use .mil
Secure .mil websites use HTTPS
24-006 | July 22, 2024
United States Forces Japan Logo (Photo by MCIPAC)
In my nearly three years as the commander of U.S. Forces Japan and Fifth Air Force, I am continuously impressed by the daily work carried out by our U.S. and Japanese bilateral teams. Our shared contributions to the defense of Japan and the peace and security of the region have never been stronger.
I write today focused on the instances where actions fell short of expectations. Recently, there have been allegations of misconduct that stand in opposition to who we are, what we stand for, and our commitments to the U.S.-Japan Alliance. These incidents overshadow the friendship and professionalism we exhibit daily and do not reflect the intentions or actions of the preponderance of U.S. service members who serve honorably in this country.
I have sent guidance to my commanders reinforcing expectations, and this week I am meeting with commanders and service members in Okinawa to reinforce these points and solicit feedback. The USFJ liberty policy for all forces in Japan is currently being thoroughly reviewed, with the aim of fostering consistent policies across U.S. forces in Okinawa. This includes increased U.S. police patrols with the aim of initiating dual patrols with Japanese police in Okinawa. We have also increased the frequency of sobriety check points for those traveling on and off several U.S. installations, targeting peak hours in areas of concern.
In coordination with the Japanese Government, we will create a new forum for cooperation between U.S. Forces Japan leaders, the Okinawan government, and community members. This forum will serve as a venue for the constructive exchange of ideas in the pursuit of shared goals.
I will continue working hard toward our shared commitment to defending Japan while ensuring our service members and families remain devoted ambassadors to this beautiful country. I thank the people of Japan for their overwhelming kindness and hospitality, and I know our service members and their families will continue to share their goodwill, compassion, and friendship in the communities where they live and work.
Lieutenant General Ricky N. Rupp Commander, United States Forces Japan