<!-- page 1 -->
HEADQUARTERS
                             UNITED STATES FORCES, JAPAN
                                          APO AP 96328




                                                                                16 September 2024

MEMORANDUM FOR ALL MILITARY PERSONNEL IN JAPAN

FROM: COMUSFJ

SUBJECT: Liberty Order for All U.S. Military Forces Located or Operating in Japan

References: (a) USPACOM INST 0530.01, Command Relations in U.S. Pacific Command
            (b) COMUSPACOM memorandum, "Authority to Set Country-Wide Liberty/Pass
            Policies for US Forces Located and Operating in Japan," 27 May 2015
            (c) COMUSPACOM memorandum, "U.S. Pacific Command Area of
            Responsibility Liberty Policy When Outside the United States and Its Territories,"
            25 September 2013

1. APPLICABILITY:

   a. This liberty order supersedes COMUSJAPAN memorandum, "Liberty Order for All U.S.
Military Forces Located and Operating in Japan," dated 21 October 2022.

    b. This order is applicable to all military personnel located and operating in Japan who are
subject to COMUSINDOPACOM authority, including Reserve personnel when serving in a
Reserve capacity, National Guard personnel on orders, regardless of whether those personnel are
in a TDY/TAD, deployed, leave, or pass status. This order is effective on 1 October 2024 and
shall remain in effect until modified, superseded, or rescinded.

2. BACKGROUND:

    a. Individual Servicemembers are accountable for their actions and behavior while on
liberty. Additionally, Servicemembers should make every reasonable effort to prevent
inappropriate or illegal activities by other Servicemembers. If Servicemembers are aware of such
misconduct, they are to directly report such misconduct to their chain of command or other
appropriate organization/office as soon as possible to do so. Leaders at all levels are expected to
set the example and conduct themselves with proper decorum, to include responsible use of
alcohol.

    b. United States military forces continue to play a critical role in shaping the reputation and
image of the United States throughout the world. This is particularly true in Japan. Acts of
indiscipline or misbehavior by U.S. military personnel adversely impact international relations,
tarnish the image of the United States military, and affect our military readiness.
Servicemembers must always conduct themselves in a professional manner and in strict
accordance with the Uniform Code of Military Justice, as well as Department of Defense and

---

<!-- page 2 -->
2

Service policies, regulations, and directives. It is equally incumbent upon Commanders to ensure
that proper procedures are in place to ensure full compliance with this order.

    c. Equally as important as sustaining the highest level of combat readiness, making a
positive impression with the citizens of Japan, through professional behavior and comportment
consistent with our core values and Service standards, is an imperative to the sustainability of our
Alliance and long-term presence here in Japan.

3. PURPOSE. The purpose of USFJ's Liberty Program is to safeguard the vital relationship we
have with Japan, bolster operational readiness, meet anti-terrorism and force protection (AT/FP)
requirements; and meet our obligations under the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security.
Additionally, these tenets will promote good order and discipline, and reinforce standards of
conduct.

4. COMMANDER OBLIGATIONS

    a. Prior to allowing Servicemembers liberty, Commanders shall ensure that personnel
receive an orientation brief addressing, at least, driving standards, weapons restrictions, security
conditions, off-limits areas, cultural awareness, and other relevant issues pertaining to the given
liberty area. Also, Commanders shall ensure Servicemembers understand their responsibilities
under the SOFA for all interactions with Japanese law enforcement.

    b. Commanders shall not grant liberty to members not in compliance with Service-specific
and DoD directives regarding sexual assault prevention and response training. For all alleged
sexual misconduct incidents involving a non-SOFA individual, Commanders shall send prompt
certification of the Servicemember's compliance with training requirements through their
component legal office to HQ USFJ (ATTN: J06). This certification will be made no lower than
the first commissioned officer exercising command authority over the Servicemember.

    c. Commanders shall practice proactive, intrusive leadership and develop programs that
foster positive behavior and accountability. Commanders shall continually evaluate members'
suitability to enjoy the privilege of liberty in Japan and shall curtail or control liberty for
individuals who demonstrate that they are at an elevated risk to violate this policy, related DoD
and Service regulations, or harm the U.S.-Japan relationship. Subordinate Commanders may
promulgate additional guidance for implementation and enforcement of this order and may
implement more restrictive provisions as they deem appropriate.

5. SERVICEMEMBER OBLIGATIONS

   a. All military personnel 19 years of age or below (including those who are in a TDY/TAD,
deployed, leave, or pass status in Japan) are subject to curfew between the hours of 0100 and
0500. During curfew hours, military members subject to curfew must be
       (1) on a U.S. military installation;
       (2) in a private, off-installation residence;
       (3) in a place of lodging (hotel);

---

<!-- page 3 -->
3

        (4) transiting directly between an airport and a U.S. military installation, a private off-
base residence, or a place of temporary lodging (hotel); or
        (5) in the performance of official duties (including duty-related travel).

    b. Component Commanders may grant curfew exceptions of limited duration on an
individual, event-by-event basis for specific circumstances. The authority to grant exceptions is
delegable no lower than the first commissioned officer exercising nonjudicial punishment
authority over the Servicemember.

    c. All military personnel, regardless of age, are prohibited from off-installation public
consumption of alcohol between 0100 and 0500 (on all days, including holidays). Public
consumption of alcohol is any consumption of alcohol off of a military installation, except when
in an off-installation residence, quarters, or hotel room.

    d. All military personnel, regardless of age, are prohibited from being physically present in
an off-base drinking establishment between 0100 and 0500 (on all days, including holidays). A
drinking establishment is defined as any business whose primary function is serving alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises. A drinking establishment may serve food or have
other forms of entertainment, but its main purpose is to serve alcoholic beverages. Drinking
establishments may include, but are not limited to, bars, pubs, taverns, nightclubs, and izakayas.

    e. All military personnel will remain aware of and comply with orders designating locations
as off-limits.

6. POINT OF CONTACT: Questions concerning this policy should be referred to your chain of
command.

                                                     RUPP.RICKY.N Digitally signed by
                                                                  RUPP.RICKY.N.1147741860

                                                     .1147741860 +09'00'
                                                                  Date: 2024.09.18 08:29:58


                                                     RICKY N. RUPP
                                                     Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                     Commander