Amazon Air incident at Miami International Airport Amazon 21 Air updates

 

 Share Written by Amazon Staff

 

 1 min read

 Updated at 3:05 p.m. PT 
 "We're heartbroken to learn that five people lost their lives in today’s incident at Miami International Airport. Our deepest sympathies go out to the families, loved ones, and all those affected by this devastating loss. The airplane, which was operated by 21 Air, was attempting to land when this incident occurred. We're working closely with local authorities and officials to learn more and will cooperate fully with any investigation." — Kelly Nantel, Amazon spokesperson 1:58 p.m. PT 
 "We can confirm that an Amazon Air plane operated by 21 Air experienced an incident while attempting to land at Miami International Airport today. This is a fast-moving situation and we're still gathering details. We're working closely with local authorities and officials to understand exactly what happened. Right now, our absolute priority is the safety, well-being, and care of everyone involved. We're doing everything we can to support those affected." — Kelly Nantel, Amazon spokesperson Related Tags 

 Company news Share More Amazon News Previous slide 1 / 1 Next slide AWS to acquire DuckLabs, the Amsterdam-based company behind DuckDB Company news Amazon increases planned investment in Louisiana to $18 billion, creating hundreds of jobs and strengthening local infrastructure Company news Get a behind-the-scenes look at Amazon's innovations with the 'Learn and Be Curious' podcast Company news Q2 Earnings: Andy Jassy on why AWS is booming and what it means for customers Company news Q2 Earnings: Andy Jassy on what's driving Amazon Ads growth Company news Q2 Earnings: Andy Jassy on Amazon Stores growth, delivery speed, and AI shopping Company news Amazon.com announces second quarter results Company news Dave Treadwell to lead AWS Compute and ML Services as Dave Brown departs Company news Scroll to top button Amazon News Press Center Amazon.com Investor Resources Country & Language: EN Careers Site Map More from Amazon Amazon.com Conditions of Use Amazon Privacy Policy © 1996- 2026 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates

 News Stores and Shopping AWS Devices Entertainment Artificial Intelligence Workplace Sustainability Community International Featured Topics Healthcare About Us What We Do Working at Amazon Leadership Principles Shareholder Letters Reports Featured Topics Artificial Intelligence Amazon's Custom Chips Our Impact Jobs and Investments Community Sustainability Small Businesses Featured Topics Building Strong Communities Building Skills for the Future Subscribe