FAA Statements on Aviation Accidents and Incidents
https://www.faa.gov/newsroom/statements/accident_incidents

FAA Statements on Aviation Accidents and Incidents 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 The information below is preliminary and subject to change. News media with questions on other topics may contact us at pressoffice@faa.gov .     

 For General Aviation: 

 •    Contact local authorities for the names and medical conditions of anyone on board.   
•    A preliminary FAA report will be posted , usually on the next business day.
•    If known, the aircraft registration number (N-number) can be searched at the Aircraft Registry . 
•    If the National Transportation Safety Board ( NTSB ) is also investigating, it will provide all updates. 

 For Commercial Aviation: 

 •    Contact the airline for information about passengers and crew, flights and schedules.
•    If the National Transportation Safety Board is also investigating, it will provide all updates.

 September 6, 2026 Commercial Aviation / Miami, Florida 

21 Air Flight 7598 overran the runway after landing at Miami International Airport around 2 p.m. local time on Sunday, Sept. 6. The Boeing 767-300 cargo aircraft departed from Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport in San Juan, Puerto Rico. The FAA will investigate. Contact the airline for additional information.

 General Aviation / Ludlow, Massachusetts 

 A Piper 28A crashed in a wooded area in Ludlow, Massachusetts around 9:15 p.m. local time on Saturday, Sept. 5. Two people were on board. The FAA and National Transportation Safety Board will investigate. The NTSB will be in charge of the investigation and will provide further updates.

 Investigation and Other Information 

 September 3, 2026 Commercial Aviation / Baltimore, Maryland 

American Airlines Flight 618 landed safely at Baltimore/Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport around 10:15 p.m. local time on Thursday, Sept. 3, after the crew reported a passenger disturbance. The Flight departed from Dallas Fort Worth International Airport and was headed to Newark Liberty International Airport. The FAA will investigate. Contact the airline and local authorities for more information.

 Commercial Aviation / New York, New York 

American Airlines Flight 392 aborted its takeoff roll from LaGuardia Airport in New York around 8:20 a.m. local time on Thursday, Sept. 3, after the crew reported striking a bird. The Boeing 737-800 was headed to Chicago O’Hare International Airport. The FAA will investigate. Contact the airline for more information.

 General Aviation / Tampa, Florida 

 A Lancair Evolution crashed in a wooded area in Tampa, Fl
