Judge: Kennedy Center must submit plans for changes 30 days out - UPI.com

Sept. 17 (UPI) -- A judge ordered Thursday that the Trump administration must submit any plans to change the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in writing 30 days in advance of the work.
The decision came in response to Rep. Joyce Beatty, D-Ohio, an ex-officio Kennedy Center board member, who had requested a hearing after President Donald Trump and the board shut down the center Tuesday.
Kennedy Center Executive Director Matt Floca responded that the closure was only for seven days "unless extended" to address "acute risks to public safety" and was "separate from any Board decision related to closure for ongoing renovations."
This case is part of an ongoing lawsuit filed by Beatty to keep Trump's name off of the building.
The president took over the Kennedy Center soon after he took office in 2025, filling the board with loyalists. They announced the center was closing Tuesday after a judge ruled for a second time that he couldn't put his name on the building.
Judge Christopher Cooper also ruled against a plan to add an inscription below the sign that says "renovated and restored by Donald J. Trump."
Cooper wrote in his Thursday decision that Beatty's request for a hearing was denied.
But he added another order.
"To avoid any confusion on that score given more recent events, the Court hereby ORDERS Defendants [the Kennedy Center board] to provide such notice in writing to Plaintiffs in both cases more than 30 days before the implementation of any changes to the scope of the project plans presented to the Court in D.C. Preservation League [a separate case], including but not limited to any 'demolition' of the Center's main building," the ruling said.
Trump has threatened to demolish the building if he doesn't get to put his name on it, saying that it's in poor condition.
"The closing will take place immediately, however, the Renovation and Reconstruction, which is a very large and complex job, cannot begin until such time as the D.C. Circuit rules on the Board's approved name," he posted Tuesday on Truth Social. "If the ruling is a negative one, which it should not be, and is not overturned by the U.S. Supreme Court, the Reconstruction and the Renovation of the Kennedy Center will not take place."
On Wednesday night, a photo was taken through the window of Air Force One of Trump holding a poster that appeared to say, "Kennedy Center DEMOLISH." The image has circulated around social media causing alarm.
"Closing the Kennedy Center without Judge Cooper's approval appears to directly violate his order. This is an assault on the rule of law," said Norm Eisen, one of Beatty's lawyers.
"The board cannot simply ignore Judge Cooper's rulings whenever it suits them. In this country, no one -- including the president -- is above the law," he added.