March/April 2026

Rotorcraft
Safety
Insights
7 The USHST – What

16 From Fixed-wing to Whirlybird –

20 High Stakes at

it Means for Safety

How to Become a Rotorcraft Pilot

Low Altitudes

March/April 2026 1

ABOUT THIS ISSUE…

U.S. Department
of Transportation
Federal Aviation
Administration
ISSN: 1057-9648
FAA Safety Briefing
Mar/Apr 2026
Volume 65/Number 2
Sean Duffy Secretary of Transportation
Bryan Bedford Administrator
Tina Amereihn Associate Administrator for Aviation Safety
Hugh Thomas Acting Executive Director
Tom Hoffmann Editor
James Williams Associate Editor / Photo Editor
Rebekah Waters Associate Editor
Nicole Hartman Associate Editor
Paul Cianciolo Associate Editor / Social Media
Sunghee Cho Art Director
Published six times a year, FAA Safety Briefing, formerly
FAA Aviation News, promotes aviation safety by discussing current technical,
regulatory, and procedural aspects affecting the safe operation and
maintenance of aircraft. Although based on current FAA policy and rule
interpretations, all material is advisory or informational in nature and should
not be construed to have regulatory effect. Certain details of accidents
described herein may have been altered to protect the privacy of those involved.

The March/April 2026 issue of FAA Safety Briefing
focuses on the realm of rotorcraft operations.
Articles in this issue focus on the real-world
risks helicopters face, along with insights
on the FAA’s strategy to improve safety in
this dynamic operating environment.

Contact Information
The magazine is available on the internet at:
www.faa.gov/safety_briefing
Comments or questions should be directed to the staff by:
Emailing: SafetyBriefing@faa.gov
Calling: (202) 267-1100
• Tweeting: @FAASafetyBrief
•

The FAA does not officially endorse any goods, services, materials, or products of
manufacturers that may be referred to in an article. All brands, product names,
company names, trademarks, and service marks are the properties of their
respective owners. All rights reserved.
The Office of Management and Budget has approved the use
of public funds for printing FAA Safety Briefing.

•

Subscription Information
The Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government
Publishing Office sells FAA Safety Briefing on subscription
and mails up to four renewal notices.
For New Orders:

Subscribe via the internet at
https://bookstore.gpo.gov/products/faa-safety-briefing,
telephone (202) 512-1800 or toll-free 1-866-512-1800,
or use the self-mailer form in the center of this magazine
and send to Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government
Publishing Office, Washington, DC, 20402-9371.
Subscription Problems/Change of Address:

Send your mailing label with your comments/request to
Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Contact Center, Washington, DC 20408-9375. You can also call
(202) 512-1800 or 1-866-512-1800 and ask for Customer Service,
or fax your information to (202) 512-2104.

bit.ly/m/FAASB
www.faa.gov/Safety_Briefing
2

FAA Safety Briefing

D E PA R T M E N T S

2	Jumpseat: an executive policy
perspective

The FAA Safety Policy Voice of Non-commercial General Aviation

3	ATIS: GA news and current events
5	Aeromedical Advisory: a checkup
on all things aeromedical
31	Checklist: FAA resources and
safety reminders
33	Nuts, Bolts, and Electrons:
GA maintenance issues
35	Flight Forum: letters from the
Safety Briefing mailbag

7

The U-S-H-S-T
Find Out What It Means for Helicopter Safety

12

Safety By Segment
Navigating the Diverse Risks in the
Rotorcraft Community

36 On Final: an editor's perspective
Inside back cover
FAA Faces: FAA employee profile

by Nicole Hartman

by Lee Roskop

16

From Fixed-wing to Whirlybird
Lift Your Flying Career with a
Helicopter Rating
by Rebekah Waters

Stakes at Low Altitudes
20 High
FAA Oversight
in the Demanding World of Medical Helicopter Operations
by Jahrod Coates

A Virtual Approach to the Real Future
22 Researching
Virtual Reality to Make Helicopter Training Better
by James Williams

MOSAIC Fact Sheet
25 An
Overview of the FAA’s Modernization of Special Airworthiness Certification Rule
by Nicole Hartman

March/April 2026 1

JUMPSEAT

an executive policy perspective
ROBERT RECKERT, ACTING FLIGHT STANDARDS SERVICE DEPUTY DIRECTOR

VENTURING INTO VERTICAL AVIATION

Did you know there are more than
12,000 helicopters and 32,000 helicopter pilots flying in the United States?
It’s a smaller community compared to
fixed-wing aviation, but the rotorcraft
world is incredibly dynamic — and
absolutely essential. From emergency
medical flights and infrastructure
inspections to agricultural work,
tourism, and rapid response missions,
helicopters fill roles no other aircraft
can. With that kind of responsibility, safety has to be front and center.
That’s why this issue of FAA Safety
Briefing takes a deep dive into vertical
aviation and the FAA’s ongoing efforts
to strengthen helicopter safety.
Before we get into the details, I
should introduce myself. I’m Rob
Reckert, currently the acting deputy
director for the Office of Safety
Standards in the Flight Standards
Service. I’ve been around helicopters
for most of my life, and I’ve been
lucky enough to experience them
from just about every angle. I started
out as a helicopter mechanic, then
earned my wings through the Army’s
Warrant Officer Flight Training
Program. My active-duty career took
me to Korea, Fort Campbell, Ky., and
Iraq as an AH 64D Apache Longbow
maintenance test pilot, and later into
the Army National Guard as an HH
60M Black Hawk standardization
instructor pilot. After leaving active
duty, I flew as a part 135 helicopter
air ambulance captain. I have also
been an aircraft owner, restoring an
award-winning airplane.
I joined the FAA in 2008, and since
then, I’ve worked in a variety of roles
that let me blend my background with
my passion for safety and innovation.
Today, I help develop and oversee the
policy, guidance, and regulations for
2

FAA Safety Briefing

civil aircraft operations — work that
keeps me connected to the aviation
community I care so much about.
I also serve as the government cochair for the U.S. Helicopter Safety
Team (USHST), a group of dedicated volunteers from government
and industry who are committed to
improving helicopter safety culture
and performance. They produce
everything from educational videos
to the groundbreaking, confidential
USHST Peer Pilot Program. You can
learn more about their work in this
issue’s article, “The USHST — What It
Means for Helicopter Safety.”
Rotorcraft operations cover a
huge range of missions, and each
one comes with its own challenges. If
you’re interested in how these segments differ — and what the data tells
us about risks and mitigation — check
out “Safety by Segment.”

I ENCOURAGE EVERY PILOT —
REGARDLESS OF WHAT CATEGORY
OR CLASS OF AIRCRAFT THEY
OPERATE — TO LEARN MORE
ABOUT THE AIRCRAFT THEY SHARE
THE SKY WITH.
Thinking about becoming a helicopter pilot? Or maybe you’re considering
a transition from military to civilian
flying? We’ve got you covered in “From
Fixed-wing to Whirly Birds,” which
also highlights some unique career
paths you might not have considered.
We’re also excited to share some of
the cutting-edge research happening
at the FAA’s Vertical Flight Aviation
Safety Technologies Laboratory and
Cockpit Simulation Facility. Their

Rob Reckert flying an HH-60M Black Hawk with the Army
over New England.

work explores how new technology
can make rotorcraft training safer and
more effective.
I know many of our readers come
from the fixed-wing side of aviation
and may not share my enthusiasm for
rotary-wing flight. But I encourage
every pilot — regardless of what category or class of aircraft they operate —
to learn more about the aircraft they
share the sky with. Understanding how
other aircraft operate and the hazards
they present, can make a real difference. Just as fixed-wing pilots need to
be mindful of wake turbulence from
large jets, they should also understand
the wake hazards created by helicopters. And helicopter pilots, who often
enjoy excellent visibility, benefit from
understanding how fixed-wing design
features can limit a pilot’s ability to
see and avoid.
At the end of the day, one of the
best safety mitigations is a commitment to continuous learning. Use
this issue as a chance to expand your
aeronautical knowledge, sharpen your
situational awareness, and strengthen
the sense of community that keeps all
of us safer in the air.

ATIS

GA news and current events

AVIATION NEWS ROUNDUP

First National Advanced Air
Mobility Strategy Launched
U.S. Secretary of Transportation Sean
Duffy announced the nation’s firstever Advanced Air Mobility (AAM)
National Strategy, setting an ambitious roadmap to accelerate American
aviation innovation and transform
our skies for the better.
The strategy and accompanying
action plan outline 40 recommendations to safely and efficiently support
AAM operations. The strategy will
also help advance President Trump’s
“America First” agenda — unleashing America’s economic strength
and ensuring the U.S., and not our
adversaries, remains a global leader in
next-generation aviation.
AAM is a rapidly emerging aerospace sector focused on safely and
efficiently integrating highly automated aircraft into U.S. airspace.
AAM is not a single technology but
rather a range of innovations, particularly new aircraft types that typically
operate below 5,000 feet, to transport
people and packages more efficiently
than ever before. Beyond aircraft,
AAM requires a modern support
system, including a skilled workforce,
upgraded infrastructure, and clear
regulatory frameworks.
The action plan gives high-level
implementation items across four

distinct strategic action phases,
referred to as LIFT. These phases
will advance research, stakeholder
engagement, policy development,
and technical deployment.
1. Leverage existing programs to
support innovation and begin
operations.
2. Initiate engagement with partners,
research and development, and
smart planning.
3. Forge new policy and models
responsive to public needs.
4. Transform the aviation ecosystem.
Visit bit.ly/AAM_Future for
more information.
Runway Safety Bed Stops
Skidding Plane
The FAA’s commitment to the safety
of the National Airspace System
(NAS) was on display with an engineered materials arresting system
(EMAS) save in September. At
Roanoke-Blacksburg Regional Airport

(ROA) in Virginia, an airplane was
safely stopped by the EMAS bed at
the end of the runway. The system,
upgraded last year, was used for the
first time that day, and it worked
exactly as designed.
Thanks in part to the dedicated
work of FAA employees, travelers and
crews walked away safely. When the
FAA shared the story on its X account
(@FAANews), the post generated
more than 1 million views and drew
widespread praise.
Across the country, there are 122
EMAS installations at 70 U.S. airports. These systems, and the people
who make them possible, continue to
prevent accidents and protect lives.
Safety is and will always remain the
FAA’s top priority. EMAS is just one
example of how the FAA workforce
makes a real difference every day —
keeping travelers, flight crews, and
aircraft safe.
Check out the X post at
bit.ly/4aSNeP1.

The FAA's engineered materials arresting system makes a save at Roanoke-Blacksburg Airport (ROA).

#FLYSAFE GA SAFETY ENHANCEMENT TOPICS

Please visit bit.ly/FlySafeMedium for more information on these and other topics.

MARCH

APRIL

Human Factors and WINGS

Angle of Attack Awareness

March/April 2026 3

ATIS

GA news and current events

Modernizing the Notice to
Airmen System
Recently, the FAA deployed the first
phase of a brand-new Notice to Airmen
(NOTAM) service. The NOTAM
service, which provides critical safety
alerts about changes in the airspace, was
originally built in 1985. It has experienced multiple outages in recent years,
including a nationwide failure in 2023.
This important deployment milestone
was achieved on time and on budget.
The new NOTAM Management
Service (NMS) began operations on
Sept. 29, 2025, initially distributing
NOTAMs to early adopter stakeholders. This initial deployment establishes
the framework for the new service,
enabling testing and validation with
early user adopters. The full transition
to the new single-source NOTAM
service is on track for late Spring 2026.
NOTAMs communicate temporary
changes such as runway closures, airspace restrictions, and obstructions to
pilots and flight planners. More than
four million are issued annually.
The new NMS has a streamlined,
modern interface. It provides nearreal-time data exchange, enabling
efficient data flows and better stakeholder collaboration. The system is

securely hosted in the cloud and has
a scalable and resilient architecture
designed for high availability.
For additional information on the
new system, visit nms.aim.faa.gov.
35th Richard G. McSpadden Report
AOPA’s Air Safety Institute released the
35th Richard G. McSpadden Report,
which analyzes general aviation
accidents that occurred in 2023. The
report is updated with accident data
on a rolling 30-day cycle to provide the
most comprehensive review of aviation safety and the latest report shows
a decline in general aviation accident
rates despite an increase in flight hours.
A total of 1,097 general aviation
accidents occurred in the U.S, with
186 of those crashes resulting in death
during the reporting period. The overall
accident rate fell from 4.3 per 100,000
flight hours in 2022 to 3.86 in 2023
and the fatal accident rate declined to
0.65 from 0.68 the previous year.
Non-commercial fixed-wing aircraft
accounted for 929 accidents and 59
were commercial fixed-wing accidents.
Non-commercial helicopter operations
experienced 70 accidents, while commercial helicopter operations suffered
39 accidents. Mechanical issues caused
187 accidents, and 91 non-commercial
fixed-wing accidents that could not be
attributed to any specific cause.
Review the report at
bit.ly/McSpaddenReport.

Spatial Disorientation Training
for Pilots
Given that approximately 80 percent
of all aviation accidents involve human
factors, the FAA recommends a greater
focus on spatial disorientation (SD)
training beyond the scope of current
guidelines and recently published an
Information for Operators (InFO) with
recommendations and resources.
SD training should emphasize
avoidance of conditions where SD
can occur, as well as recognition of
onset and recovery from SD events.
To reduce the possibility of SD accidents in the future, the FAA recommends that operators and training
providers incorporate SD theoretical
and practical training into their operations. You can review the InFO at
bit.ly/SD_InFO and learn more about
SD at bit.ly/SpatialDisorientation.
FAA to Overhaul Organizational
Structure
A plan to overhaul the FAA’s organizational structure was recently
announced to enhance safety, embrace
innovation, and increase transparency.
The comprehensive re-organization
includes the creation of a new safety
oversight office.
This office, which was supported
by Congress in the 2024 FAA
Reauthorization, will implement a
single safety management system
(SMS) and risk management strategy
for the entire FAA. Now, instead of
different safety metrics siloed in individual offices, the agency will be able
to share safety data more freely. Other
key changes include:
• Launching an Airspace
Modernization office.
• Creating a new Advanced Aviation
Technologies office to oversee the
integration of drones, eVTOLs, and
other advanced air mobility vehicles
into the airspace.
Learn more at bit.ly/
NewFAAStructure.

(Graph by AOPA)
4 FAA Safety Briefing

a checkup on all things aeromedical

AEROMEDICAL ADVISORY

DR. SUSAN NORTHRUP, FAA FEDERAL AIR SURGEON

WATCH OUT FOR BAD VIBES

Vibration is ubiquitous in aviation
regardless of the type of aircraft flown.
Even hot air balloons have a noticeable vibration when the burner is lit.
However, rotorcraft, the theme for
this issue, are known for vibration
more than others. Helicopter pilots
learn early in their training that
different frequencies of vibration are
associated with problems in different systems, such as the main rotor,
engine, or tail rotor. Other vibrations
are normal parts of flight, such as
the vibration from transverse flow
effect as a helicopter accelerates or
decelerates and is near ETL (effective
translational lift). Regardless of the
cause, vibrations can take a toll on the
pilot, so it’s important to be aware of
their impact on your performance.
The medical effects of vibration
are well recognized in the occupational medicine community.
Musculoskeletal pain in the hands,
shoulders, and hips is seen from exposure to vibration. One can develop
Raynaud Phenomenon in the fingers,
which is associated with numbness,
pain, and blanching of the skin (paleness followed by cyanosis — blueish
color — and redness). Acute low back
pain (LBP) is strongly related to the
average flight hours per day, while
chronic LBP is linked to cumulative
exposure (total flight hours). There is
also stress to the cervical spine (neck).
Both neck and LBP are aggravated
by prolonged sitting and whole-body
vibration. The chronic discomfort can
be a distraction and degrade performance. Bear in mind that helmets
and night vision goggles can aggravate neck pain, even though they are
essential to many activities. There is
also concern about a possible link to
cardiovascular disease, nerve damage,

headaches, and even dizziness and
motion sickness. Disorientation and
interference with fine visual acuity
have also been reported.
While many of these issues are recognized in the military rotary-wing
community, there is less discussion in
the civilian sector. Potential under-reporting can result since pilots might
not recognize the association with
workplace vibration or appreciate the
potential seriousness of the condition.
In addition, many pilots are reluctant
to highlight medical issues, especially
to their aviation medical examiner,
and might not be symptomatic when
they are at their primary care doctor’s
office. You should mention that you
fly helicopters and highlight the exposure to vibration, as not all physicians
are familiar with the occupational
exposures a helicopter pilot faces.
So, what can you do to minimize
the effects of vibration? Take breaks as
often as feasible, preferably exiting the
aircraft and walking around a bit. Pay
attention to the flight regimes associated with increased vibration (the
yellow arc for some RPM settings,
out of trim flight, etc.) and ensure
that the aircraft is well maintained
and trimmed. Maintain a loose grip,

holding controls as lightly as possible
to maintain safe control. Avoid poor
posture. If there is a second pilot or
an autopilot, periodically relinquish
the controls and give your hands and
arms a break. Stay warm and wear
gloves to keep your hands warm;
this enables better circulation. While
pilots cannot eliminate all vibration in
a helicopter, taking steps to minimize
its effect is certainly worthwhile.
There are numerous other activities outside of flying that also expose
one to vibration, such as hand tools,
including drills, sanders, saws, and
chainsaws, as well as push mowers
and lawn tractors, etc. Avoid/minimize these and other aggravating
factors such as smoking, excessive
alcohol, etc. For those who fly helicopter air ambulances, you must also
think of the patients you transport.
Decompression sickness, a hazard
for scuba divers or others who are
exposed to rapid changes in pressure, can be triggered by vibration. I
expect that most of you have seen how
rapidly gas can evolve in a carbonated
beverage if the container is tapped.
The same can happen from the vibration in a helicopter, even without a
significant change in altitude.
Although vibration cannot be
eliminated in aviation, there are ways
to minimize exposure and impact.
Early intervention/treatment can help
prevent chronic complications. Stay
healthy and fly safe.
Dr. Susan Northrup received a bachelor's degree in chemistry, a medical degree from The Ohio State University, and
a master’s degree in public health from the University of
Texas. She is double board-certified by the American Board
of Preventive Medicine in Aerospace Medicine and Occupational Medicine. She is a retired U.S. Air Force colonel and
a former regional medical director for Delta Airlines. She is
also an active private pilot and aircraft owner.
March/April 2026 5

FAA SAFETY CENTER FORUMS
April 14–18, 2026

TUESDAY
APRIL 14

WEDNESDAY
APRIL 15

THURSDAY
APRIL 16

FRIDAY
APRIL 17

SATURDAY
APRIL 18

08:30 – 09:30

10:00 – 11:00

11:30 – 12:30

13:00 – 14:00

14:30 – 15:30

Don’t Tell Me
What to Do

Was That for Us?
Being Safe
round Runways

Inspection
Authorization (IA) and
Aircraft Maintenance

Tips to Interpret Wx
Data Accurately

Flying the Fire Boss

Dr. Ian Johnson
FAA

Dane Guynn
Andrew Applegate
FAA

Mike Millard
FAA

Gary Pokodner
FAA

Steve Guetter
Advanced Flight Training

WINGS: BK1
AFS0140353

WINGS: BK2
AFS0140359

AMT/IA
AFS0140360

WINGS: BK1
AFS0140361

WINGS: BK2
AFS0140364

Weather or Not
to Fly

Aircraft Tire Care
and Maintenance

The Fun and
Challenges of
Flying Seaplanes

Amphibious Aircraft
Safety Systems

Jeff Arnold
Leidos

Mary Beth Widak
Good Year Tires

MOSAIC Final Rule
Overview – Sport Pilots,
Light-Sport Category
Repairmen, Light-Sport
Category Aircraft

Steve Guetter
Advanced Flight Training

Amy Gesch
Wipaire

FAA
WINGS: BK1
AFS0140366

WINGS: BK3/AMT
AFS0140367

WINGS: BK3/AMT
AFS0140368

WINGS: BK3
AFS0140369

WINGS: BK3
AFS0140370

Was That For Us ?
Being Safe Around
Runways

Straight Talk About
Aviation Safety

Meet the FAA

Zero to 16 Degrees,
An AOA Story

Clear Skies,
Sound Decisions:
Navigating Weather

Dane Guynn
Andrew Applegate
FAA

John & Martha
King Schools

Mark Korin
Alpha Systems

Jenna Williamson
Leidos

WINGS: BK2
AFS0140372

WINGS: BK3
AFS0140374

WINGS: NA
AFS0140375

WINGS: BK2/AMT
AFS0140376

WINGS: BK3
AFS0140377

Wilderness Survival
Techniques
(Part 1 of 2)

Wilderness Survival
Techniques
(Part 2 of 2)

Aircraft Battery
Airworthiness

It’s a Risky Business

Aeromedical Updates
for Pilots

Mike Millard
FAA

Mike Millard
FAA

Chris Holder
Concorde Battery

Ray Heyde
FAASTeam Rep

Dr. Brett Wyrick/
Dr. Susan Northrup

WINGS: BK3
AFS0140379

WINGS: BK3
AFS0140380

WINGS: BK3/AMT
AFS0140382

WINGS: BK1/AMT
AFS0140383

WINGS: BK3
AFS0140384

MOSAIC Final Rule
Overview – Sport Pilots,
Light-Sport Category
Repairmen, Light-Sport
Category Aircraft

How to Fly ODPs
and SIDs

In-Flight Loss of
Control: The Most
Frequent Cause of
Fatal Accidents

Using Augmented
Reality and Virtual
Reality Tools in Flight
Training

Fifty Years of
Attention to Human
Factors: Not Fixed Yet!

FAA

Ed Verville
DPE

Ed Verville
DPE

Greg Reverdiau
Pilot Institute

Dr. Bill Johnson
Safety Consultant

WINGS: BK3/AMT
AFS0140389

WINGS: AK2
AFS0140387

WINGS: BK2
AFS0140388

WINGS: BK3
AFS0140385

WINGS: BK1
AFS0140390

Access FAASTeam Safety
Brochures here:
bit.ly/FAAST_pamphlets

6 FAA Safety Briefing

FAA Forums Open Daily at 8:30 a.m. unless otherwise noted.
Schedule is subject to change. For updates, check the
QR code to the right or go to Lakeland Forums:
bit.ly/FAA_Forums

Join us
for daily
forums at the
FAA Safety
Center

Tomorrow:
Meet the FAA

Mike Millard
is back with
AMT and
WINGS
Credits!

Tomorrow:
MOSAIC is
here!

Make Better
Decisions
Through
Education

THE U-S-H-S-T
Find Out What It Means for
Helicopter Safety
By Nicole Har tman

March/April 2026 7

Completed Helicopter Safety Enhancements (H-SEs)

A

viation and acronyms go together like thunder and
lightning, and helicopters are no exception to the
rule. One important line-up of letters is the USHST,
or the U.S. Helicopter Safety Team. Established in 2013 as
a regional partner to the International Helicopter Safety
Team (IHST), now known as the Vertical Aviation Safety
Team (VAST), the USHST is a government-industry
partnership focused on reducing helicopter accidents and
fatalities in the United States.
The team’s vision is ambitious: a civil registered helicopter community without fatal accidents, and they are
undertaking a whirlwind of efforts to help achieve that
goal. So, let’s take a look at the USHST and its role in the
helicopter community.

Say "Helo" to the USHST
The role of the USHST is collaboration within the civil
helicopter community (industry and government) to
prevent fatal accidents through data-driven analysis and
the development of voluntary, consensus-based safety
recommendations. It identifies safety issues, develops helicopter safety enhancements (H-SEs), and promotes safety
culture and performance through outreach and other
programs. The USHST also provides a confidential mental
health support program for pilots and crew members
available at ushstpeer.org.
USHST Steering Committee

Helicopter Safety Enhancement Teams

Co-Chairs

23-01, Promote Conservative go/no-go
decision making
Lead: VAI Safety Industry
Advisory Council
23-02, Educate hazards of low altitude
operations
Lead: USHST Steering Committee
23-03, Improve risk management of
night operations
Lead: Engineering Systems, Inc (ESI)
23-04, Imporve fatigue awareness and risk
mitigation of scheduling factors
leading to fatigue
Lead: Pulsar Informatics
23-05, Training on effects of adverse
wind situations
Lead: Air Methods

• Chris Baur: Hughes Aerospace
• Robert Reckert: FAA
Members
• Chris Hill:VAI
• Carsten Hoyt: GAMA
• Seth Buttner: Airbus Helicopters
• Tony Randall: Bell
• Nigel Speedy: Leonardo
• Tim Tucker: Robinson
• Jill Browning: Sikorsky
• Clarke Peasants: MTSU
• Wes Van Dell: UND
• Jorge Castillo: FAA
USHST Support Teams
• Coordination Team
• Safety Assurance Team
• Safety Promotion Team
8 FAA Safety Briefing

Link to ASIAS Program
Rotorcraft Issue Analysis Team

H-SE 13A
Utilities and
Constructions
Practice Guide

H-SE 19A
Safety Culture and
Professionalism

H-SE 22A
Detection and
Management of
Risk Level Changes During Flight

H-SE 28/112
Final Walk Around
& Security of
External Cargo

H-SE 30
Development of
ACS RotorcraftHelicopter Series

H-SE 91
Stability
Augmentation
System/Autopilot

H-SE 81
Simulators and
Outside-theEnvelope Flight
Conditions

H-SE 82
Helicopter Flight
Data Monitoring

H-SE 90
UAS in High-Risk
Environments

H-SE 91
Enhanced
Helicopter Vision
Systems

H-SE 116
Make & Model
Transition Training

H-SE 123
Simulations for
Safe Decision
Making

H-SE 124
Understanding of
Basic Helicopter
Aerodynamics

H-SE 125
Pre-Flight Risk
Assessment for
Student Pilots

H-SE 127A
Recognition &
Recovery of
Spatial
Disorientation

H-SE 130
Hazards of
Over-the-Counter
Medication

Modeled after initiatives like the Commercial Aviation
Safety Team (CAST), the USHST has a collaborative, public-private structure featuring a steering committee for strategy, support teams for operations, and safety enhancement
(H-SE) teams that develop data-driven solutions to reduce
fatal accidents. The USHST also works closely with industry
(e.g., trade associations, owners and operators, manufacturers, and schools) and the FAA to develop a consensus-based
approach, mirroring structures such as the General Aviation
Joint Safety Committee (GAJSC). Check out the Nov/Dec
2025 FAA Safety Briefing issue at bit.ly/FAASB-archive for
more information on the GAJSC.
The USHST utilizes a system-level safety cycle and data
from sources such as the FAA’s Aviation Safety Information
Analysis and Sharing (ASIAS) Rotorcraft Issue Analysis
Team (R-IAT) to identify systemic safety issues. It then
creates and disseminates voluntary, risk mitigation recommendations (H-SEs) to improve safety culture and performance. Metrics are tracked by setting specific, data-driven
goals, such as reducing the fatal accident rate by a certain
percentage over a five-year period.
The USHST has finalized all its original H-SEs, resulting in valuable resources and training programs to
address the leading causes of fatal accidents. Some notable
initiatives include:
• Flight Data Monitoring (H-SE 82): This enhancement
promoted the use of data recording devices and voluntary safety programs to identify hazardous behaviors
before they result in accidents. The initiative aimed to
engage small operators effectively in safety monitoring.

• “56 Seconds to Live” Campaign (H-SE 127A and
others): This major initiative focused on recognizing
and avoiding spatial disorientation and unintended flight
in instrument meteorological conditions (UIMC). It
produced a video series and a free training course, widely
considered a significant success in providing pilots with
critical decision-making tools.
• Safety Culture and Risk Management (Outreach SEs):
The USHST has successfully developed H-SEs focused on
"soft" skills, such as improving safety culture and professionalism (H-SE 19A) and managing risk in flight (H-SE
22A). These efforts have been detailed in various podcasts
and presentations to disseminate the information widely.

• Improve Fatigue
Awareness And Risk
Mitigation Of Scheduling
Factors Leading To
Fatigue (H-Se 23-04):
Evaluate the sources of fatigue
risk in helicopter operations, develop a
framework
for fatigue risk management, and provide practical
resources to support fatigue risk management program
implementation.
• Training On Effects Of Adverse Wind Situations (H-SE
23-05): Better illustrate the hazards posed by adverse
winds on rotorcraft performance, especially when operating at low air speeds.

The team’s vision is ambitious: a civil
registered helicopter community
without fatal accidents, and they are
undertaking a whirlwind of efforts
to help achieve that goal.

Visit ushst.org/h-se-details for information on all the H-SEs.
These enhancements produce numerous safety-focused
outputs, all intended to help realize the vision of zero fatal
civil helicopter accidents. These products generally fall into
the categories of guidelines, training materials, best practices, videos, and recommendations for new technology.

Guidance and Best Practices
The USHST is continuing this vital safety work with five
new H-SEs under development:
• Promote Conservative Go/No-Go Decision Making
(H-SE 23-01): Help prevent fatal helicopter accidents
that can be directly or indirectly linked to preflight judgment errors, decision-making errors, and inadequate
mission planning.
• Educate Hazards Of Low Altitude Operations (H-SE
23-02): Pursue better avoidance of obstacles (e.g., wires,
towers) in the low-level environment through consideration of identification techniques and both traditional
and emerging protection devices.
• Improve Risk Management Of Night Operations (H-SE
23-03): Use the focus areas of training, technology integration, operational procedures, physiological considerations,
environmental awareness, and equipment to promote
better risk mitigation strategies specific to night flying.

• Recommended Practices for Preflight, Final Walk
Around, and Post-flight Inspections (H-SE 28): These
guidelines emphasize a thorough check of the aircraft to
ensure it is in a condition for safe flight.
• Utility Patrol and Construction (UPAC)
Recommended Practice Guide (H-SE 13A): A specific
guide tailored to the unique hazards of utility operations,
to include human performance considerations.

The USHST makes rotorcraft safer by
identifying key causes of accidents
and developing solutions that
improve safety through technology,
training, and risk management.
Training Material and Courses
• Simulations for Safe Decision Making: Increased use
of relevant simulations to rehearse at-risk scenarios
(H-SE 123).
• Make/Model Transition Training: Ensure familiarity
and understanding of new “model specific” equipment
(H-SE 116).
• Fatigue Awareness: Materials designed to improve
awareness and mitigation of risks associated with fatigue
in scheduling (H-SE 23-04).

March/April 2026 9

It addresses the human factor head-on by offering understanding, connection, and timely guidance before small
issues become crises. The USHST Peer Pilot Program is
available to help at ushstpeer.org.
Pilots interested in becoming a peer pilot volunteer can
contact the USHST at info@USHST.org (be sure to include
“PPP Volunteer” in the subject).
apple.co/4alpmD7

ushst.org/podcasts

Technology and Equipment Recommendations
• Stability Augmentation Systems (SAS) / Autopilot:
Recommendations for developing and installing these
systems in light helicopters to reduce LOC-I accidents
(H-SE 70).
• Enhanced Vision Systems: Promoting the use of
enhanced helicopter vision systems (H-SE 91).

The HUGHES App — Free to USHST Members
Hughes Aerospace provides the updated Hughes App at
no cost to USHST members. Available for iOS users on
both iPhone and iPad, it provides valuable information
to support safety and decision making, including charts,
navigation, weather and weather cameras, and the PPP. The
app also features a new VFR prediction tool. Scan the QR
code to check it out.

Formal Publications
• Airman Certification Standards (ACS): The USHST
contributed significantly to the development and publication of the new ACS rotorcraft-helicopter series, which
replaced older Practical Test Standards (PTS) (H-SE 30).
• Formal Reports and White Papers: Detailed reports
and guidance documents are published on the USHST
website for public access.
These products are continually developed and distributed
to the aviation community through various channels, including the USHST website, industry events such as VERTICON
(verticon.org), and collaborations with partners like the FAA.

Mental Health = Safer Skies
The USHST also aligned itself with broader changes in
the aviation industry. Pilots of all types of aircraft have an
incredible responsibility every time they take to the air and
face a unique combination of pressures — high-stakes decision-making, irregular hours, extended periods away from
home, and the constant demand for peak performance
under stress.
The USHST recognized that prioritizing only technical
training and physical health is insufficient; pilot mental
health matters for the pilot’s quality of life and for the safety
of the National Airspace System. To reduce barriers to
help-seeking behavior, it established the Peer Pilot Program
(PPP). The PPP is a volunteer-driven initiative that offers
free peer support, creating an environment where aviation
professionals can find guidance and support from those
who understand the exceptional stresses of their profession.
10 FAA Safety Briefing

ushst.org/ushst-membership-card-with-the-hughes-app

But Wait, There’s More
The USHST is full throttle when it comes to conducting
outreach and education, offering a comprehensive suite of
communication products across multiple platforms. This
accessible, expert-driven safety content includes:
• Health & Safety Education: in-depth documents/white
papers on specific safety topics
• Videos/Reels (Rotorcraft Collective): productions of
varying lengths focused on accident prevention
• Podcasts (Push to Talk): featuring discussions on H-SEs
and safety culture
• Training & Events: free courses, safety challenges at
expos, and webinars
• Checklists & Posters: practical tools for flight crews
• USHST Newsletter: sign up to receive this quarterly email

and set personal minimums. It also engages
with industry groups to increase safety
awareness and learn about impediments to
safety improvements. For more information
on USHST’s culture and safety information,
visit ushst.org.

The Results Are In

bit.ly/RotorYT

The USHST is also part of “The Rotorcraft Collective,”
a series of short safety videos produced by the FAA. These
videos provide information on topics such as preflight
inspections and passenger briefings, wire strike avoidance,
preventing loss of control inflight, and fatigue, and have
garnered nearly 600K views. You can view the video series
on YouTube at bit.ly/RotorCollective. You can also view the
series on the Aeroverse streaming service and its website at
bit.ly/aero-rc. Check out the Forum section of this issue to
see what others are saying about the series.
A key component of this outreach effort is promoting safety culture. The USHST encourages a proactive
approach to safety by advocating that pilots make safety a
personal responsibility, use risk management checklists,

The USHST makes rotorcraft safer by
identifying key causes of accidents and
developing solutions that improve safety
through technology, training, and risk
management. Evidence of this is the fact that
fatal accidents have been down significantly
(over 35%) since 2013, when the USHST was
formed. In 2024, the industry achieved its
lowest fatal accident rate (0.45 per 100K hours) and overall
accident rate (3.05 per 100K hours) in 25 years, alongside
the second-lowest total accidents (88).
These efforts to develop, deliver, and promote valuable
safety resources focused on improving the U.S. helicopter
community’s safety culture and performance should have
you saying — the USHST, that’s the acronym for me!
Nicole Hartman is an FAA Safety Briefing associate editor and technical writer-editor in the
FAA’s Flight Standards Service.
LEARN MORE

ushst.org

March/April 2026 11

SAFETY BY
SEGMENT

Navigating
the Diverse
Risks in the
Rotorcraft
Community
By Lee Roskop

12 FAA Safety Briefing

T

he ways a helicopter can be used are limited only by
the imagination. (Well, that and safety.) While the uses
may seem endless, most helicopter operations are conducted under one of four parts of Title 14, Code of Federal
Regulations (14 CFR): part 91 for general aircraft ops, part
133 for rotorcraft external-load ops, part 135 for commuter
and on-demand ops, and part 137 for agricultural aircraft
ops. Each one of these segments comes with its own set of
safety risks. That is why, when the U.S. Helicopter Safety
Team (USHST) set a goal to reduce the five-year accident
rate, they examined the safety risks unique to each of the
four 14 CFR parts for helicopter operations.

Part 91 (General Aircraft Ops)
Part 91 operations account for about 55% of annual U.S.
helicopter flight hours. This includes helicopter industry
segments such as aerial observations, instruction/training,
business travel, authorized air tours, and flights conducted
for personal use. For the five years studied, the highest
percentage of helicopter part 91 fatal accidents were in the
occurrence category of unintended flight into instrument
meteorological conditions (22%), followed by low altitude
object strikes (15%), and loss of control inflight (12%).

Different Goals Driven by Different Risks
In early 2025, USHST’s leadership set their latest fiveyear helicopter accident-reduction goal and examined
accident-causal factors by part. This goal was tailored
to reduce the five-year average fatal accident rate by
segment. The idea of setting goals based on the different
operating parts was to acknowledge the hazards specific
to each operation and the differences in public expectations for acceptable risk. There are certainly common
hazards across each operating part, but each also has
unique hazards that drive distinct risks that may lead to
fatal accidents. The USHST based this conclusion on its
review of the aviation occurrence categories that defined
what happened in fatal accidents.
Operating Part

Baseline: 5-Yr
Avg 2018-2022

Reduction Goal

Goal: 5-Yr Avg
2025-2029

Part 91

0.81

10%

0.73

Part 133

1.73

10%

1.56

Part 135

0.33

50%

0.17

Part 137

1.11

10%

1

Five-year helicopter fatal accident reduction goals per 100K operations.

Part 133 (Rotorcraft External-load Ops)
Operations under part 133 account for about 6% of the
annual U.S. helicopter flight hours. These operations
include industry segments such as utility patrol and construction companies that support building and maintaining
the national electrical grid. Other segments include aerial
firefighting as well as heavy-lift flights used to transport
equipment. Part 133 had a much larger percentage of low
altitude object strikes (40%) and system component failure
due to non-powerplant issues (20%).
March/April 2026 13

Part 135 (Commuter and On Demand Ops)
Part 135 operations account for about 31% of the annual
U.S. helicopter flight hours. These operations include industry segments that are typically more familiar and visible to
the public, such as helicopter air ambulance patient transport, movement of offshore oil and gas crews, and air tours.
Particularly in the helicopter air ambulance segment, a large
percentage of the hours are flown at night.
The reduction rate goal for part 135 was set higher than
any other category. This reflects a lower acceptable risk
for these types of operations, which typically involve on
demand passenger services. Public expectations for these
operations are higher, and, as such, the risk tolerance is
lower. The fatal accident data showed that unintended
flight into IMC percentage was the highest occurrence category (21%), followed by medical events (14%). Smaller but
still noteworthy occurrence categories were loss of control
inflight (7%) and low altitude object strikes (7%).

The reduction rate goal for part 135
was set higher than any other category.
Part 137 (Agricultural Aircraft Ops)
Part 137 operations account for about 8% of the annual
U.S. helicopter flight hours flown. These operations include
what is commonly known as “crop dusting,” as well as other
product dispensing activities related to soil treatment or
forest preservation. Most part 137 fatal accidents occurred

Part 91 (events = 41)
General Aircraft Ops

Part 135 (events = 14)
Commuter and On Demand Ops

12%

7%

15%

7%

22%

7%

14%

21%

Part 137 (events = 15)
Agricultural Aircraft Ops

10%

7%

73%

Part 133 (events = 5)
Rotorcraft External-load Ops

40%

20%

0%
Loss of Control
- Inflight

100%
Struck Object During
Low Altitude Ops

Unintended
Flight in IMC

Syst Comp Fail
Non-Powerplant

Results of a USHST study that show a breakdown of fatal accident causal factors by operating part from calendar year 2020 to 2024.
14 FAA Safety Briefing

Abrupt
Meneuver

Medical

All Other

in the low altitude object category (73%). When spraying
crops, almost the entire flight takes place at low-altitude—
often near power lines that can both surround and pass
through the area of operations.

Enhancing Safety by Segment
Regardless of the different industry segment uses, preventing fatal helicopter accidents is something everyone can get
behind. To encourage industry’s efforts to improve safety
and reduce fatal accidents across the four operating parts,
the FAA and industry steadfastly pursue safety education
and outreach. Working together through the USHST has
led to the development of voluntary risk mitigation materials, referred to as safety enhancements.
Various FAA and industry members from the USHST who
participated in researching fatal accident reports also created
the materials for 16 completed safety enhancements. These
resources are available to everyone at ushst.org/h-se-details.
Several new helicopter safety enhancements are also currently in development for the following areas:
• Improving in-flight decision making;
• Education on the hazards of operations in the low altitude environment;
• Identifying mitigations for risks that are common to
night operations;
• Addressing more objective methods to detect and mitigate human fatigue; and
• Accounting for the effects of flight during adverse winds.
The safety enhancement resources are just part of the
strategy to prevent future fatal accidents. The FAA Safety
Team distributes analyses, reports, and safety enhancement materials produced by the USHST, including
packaging them into short educational videos as part of
an initiative called The Rotorcraft Collective (on YouTube
at bit.ly/RotorYT). The FAA’s Aircraft Certification
Service also maintains a public-facing Rotorcraft Accident
Dashboard (bit.ly/RotorDash) that is updated weekly and
also produces a monthly accident briefing summary for
distribution to the industry to ensure consistent awareness of developing safety trends.

The Rotorcraft Issue Analysis Team (R-IAT), a key
component of the Aviation Safety Information Analysis
and Sharing System (ASIAS), is moving beyond “reactive”
safety that comes from analyzing fatal accidents. This
team, co-chaired by an FAA and an industry representative, was formed to study data voluntarily provided by participating operators to proactively identify vulnerabilities
and recommend actions before more severe events occur.
In addition to monitoring low-severity events related to
loss of control inflight, unintended flight into IMC, and
low-altitude object strikes, the R-IAT has used ASIAS to
improve predictability of potential bird strikes and helicopter-to-drone encounters.

Safety For All Operations
The USHST has not forgotten about safety improvements
that would simultaneously benefit all the operating parts.
The team continues to advocate for a greater presence of
tools that have already proven helpful in improving pilot
decision-making, such as weather cameras. These cameras
(online at weathercams.faa.gov) provide better information
about current or developing weather in remote areas where
more traditional weather reporting capabilities do not exist.
The success stories of weather cameras in states such as
Alaska and Colorado show the safety value of continuing to
expand the program.
Mental health is also an ongoing focus area, and the
USHST offers free confidential support through its Peer
Pilot Program. The program partners with leading specialists in this field and is governed by the highest standards
of confidentiality. It offers resources, videos, and even a
link to speak to a peer. By talking to someone who is not
only a trained listener but also understands the pressures
of the profession, a peer pilot knows that many seemingly
insurmountable issues can be reduced or resolved well
before they become a problem. Confidential resources are
available at ushstpeer.org.

Touchdown
Helicopters are amazing machines capable of amazing feats.
The professionals from the FAA and industry who work in
the USHST continue to strive to improve the safety of civil
helicopter operations, pursuing a vision of a civil helicopter
community without fatal accidents. Studying safety goals
by operating part recognizes the variety of operations in
the helicopter community. It represents the latest step on
the journey to ensure all helicopter operations continue to
flourish in the safest manner possible.
Lee Roskop is an aviation safety coordinator specializing in rotorcraft fleet safety for the
FAA’s Aircraft Certification Service. He is a former Air Force helicopter pilot and has worked
with the USHST for over 10 years.

March/April 2026 15

FROM FIXED-WING
TO WHIRLYBIRD
Lift Your Flying Career with a Helicopter Rating

By Rebekah Waters

H

ave you ever wondered what it would be like to fly
backwards, turn in place, or even pause mid-flight? Do
you want to challenge yourself mentally and physically
and broaden your career options as a pilot? Then maybe a
helicopter rating is for you. Helicopters offer unmatched
freedom, allowing pilots to operate in environments that
fixed-wing aircraft simply can’t. Beyond the thrill of more
versatile flying, this rating unlocks a wide range of career
opportunities. Whether you’re transitioning from fixedwing flying to whirlybirds, or moving from military to civilian flying, or even if you’re starting from scratch, earning
your helicopter rating is a challenging and exciting process.

Birds of a Different Feather
Part of what makes a transition to helicopters challenging
is the key differences in the way fixed-wing aircraft and
helicopters operate. Airplanes achieve lift from airflow
over fixed wings. Helicopters use spinning blades, known
as rotors, to generate lift. The control inputs for each are
also different. Helicopter flight controls are operated by
16 FAA Safety Briefing

the pilot’s hands and feet. The cyclic (right hand, controls
direction/rotor disc tilt), collective (left hand, controls
altitude/power threw a twist-grip throttle usually on the
collective) for fuel delivery, and anti-torque foot pedals
controlling the tail rotor for yaw. The cyclic tilts the rotor
disc to move the helicopter forward, backward, left, or
right, while the collective changes all blade angles for
ascent/descent. The anti-torque pedals control yaw, turning
the helicopter 360 degrees while in a hover. This requires
constant hands-on coordination for stable flight. In general,
fixed-wing aircraft are more stable, giving pilots more time
to identify and respond to issues or even radio for help.
Helicopter pilots must rely on memorized emergency procedures since there is less time to act.

Knowing why you want a helicopter
rating and how you intend to use it
is essential.

Overall, helicopter flying is more complex than fixedwing flying. If you’re starting from scratch, you’ll need to
master the intricate skills required to operate a helicopter
safely. If you’re used to fixed wing flying, you’re faced with
the added challenge of unlearning and relearning certain
flying skills that may have become habits. Luckily, most
pilots find the transition from fixed-wing to helicopters a
worthwhile endeavor!

Why Whirlybirds?
Since flying a helicopter is a challenging skill to master, it's
important to know why you want to do it. Maybe you’re in
the market for an adventurous hobby or want to check an
item off your bucket list. There could be many reasons why
the vertical life calls to you, but one motivator could be the
broad range of careers available to helicopter-rated pilots.
Here is a list of just some of the options:
• Flight Instructor — A good option for helicopter pilots
with a passion for teaching, and can be a good way to
build up flight time.
• Air Tour or Sightseeing — Enjoy amazing scenery. Also,
another way to build up flight time.
• Utility — Deliver personnel and cargo to remote and/or
rugged locations, often suspending the cargo on a longline beneath the helicopter.
• Offshore Oil and Gas — Transport personnel and equipment to and from offshore oil platforms all over the world
• Corporate, Charter, or Air Taxi — People-centered flying
focused on passenger safety and comfort.
• Survey — Low altitude flying for infrastructure
inspection, route flying for mapping, environmental
monitoring, and more.
• Crop Dusting, Fish Spotting, or Livestock Herding —
Rural settings and agricultural operations.
• Electronic News Gathering — Fly with reporters (traffic,
weather, breaking news).
• Motion Picture and Television — Help with filming for
movies and TV shows.
• Helicopter Air Ambulance — Transport medical crews
and patients — often providing time-sensitive, critical
life-saving care.
• Law Enforcement — Airborne public safety and surveillance operations.
• Search and Rescue — Assist with land or sea rescue operations in otherwise difficult-to-reach locations.
• Firefighting — Includes aerial surveys, transport of firefight crews, and fire suppression efforts.
• Test Pilot — Requires advanced training and a strong
safety record.

As you can see, helicopter career options are numerous
and varied! Pilots seeking adventure might like flying longline operations, while those who prefer a fixed schedule
might be drawn more to corporate flying or sightseeing
operations. If helping others is what gets you out of bed in
the morning, perhaps you’re more suited for emergency
services or law enforcement flying.
Making the career transition from fixed-wing to helicopter flying might not seem like much of a leap. But,
even if you’re starting from scratch, a helicopter career is
still within reach. Jessica Meiris, a Colorado helicopter
pilot and FAA Safety Team (FAASTeam) Representative,
started out as a mountain guide — not a pilot. After 15
years of climbing mountains, she needed a job that was
less physically demanding while still mentally challenging
and engaging. Helicopter flying was the answer. Meiris
has had more than one of the jobs previously mentioned,
but her favorite was long-line operations flying. “I love
the challenge of long-line flying. It is so engaging and so
hard, and you’re always busy!” says Meiris. This type of
flying comes with a rotating schedule, which, for Meiris,
was just another plus. “I really like working multiple days
straight followed by concentrated time off, but these types
of schedules aren’t for everyone.”
Meiris has also worked as an air tour pilot and helicopter
air ambulance (HAA) pilot. Both offer new challenges and
benefits. As an air tour pilot, her “office” is the great outdoors. Flying an ambulance lets her give back to her community in the same mountains where she was a guide all those
years ago. Whether flying is your first career or, like Meiris,
your second, the right training and experience are key.

Helicopters will take you places that
fixed-wing flying can’t.
From Aspiration to Certification
Obtaining your helicopter rating can be a demanding
and costly endeavor. Knowing why you want a helicopter rating and how you intend to use it is essential. Leah
Murphy, commercial helicopter pilot and FAASTeam
Representative, states: “Helicopter training is a significant
investment, so knowing where you want to end up can
help shape smart decisions early on.” Murphy’s advice to
prospective helicopter pilots? “I highly suggest taking a
discovery flight and finding out if this is something they
enjoy and want to pursue.”
Once you know where you want to go, the next step is
figuring out how you’re going to get there. Whether you’re
transitioning from fixed-wing or military, or starting from
scratch, be prepared to chart a path that yields the best
return on this investment.
March/April 2026 17

If you’re starting from scratch, you’ll need a student
pilot certificate, which means making sure you meet all
the minimum eligibility requirements. For a private pilot
helicopter certificate, you must:
• Be at least 17 years old;
• Be fluent in English (reading, writing, and speaking);
• Provide proof of identity; and
• Qualify for a third-class medical certificate.
For a helicopter commercial pilot certificate, you must
already have earned a helicopter private pilot certificate, be
at least 18 years old, and qualify for a second-class medical.
These requirements are the same for fixed-wing and helicopter pilot certificates, so pilots transitioning from fixedwing have already met them. Once you’ve checked all these
boxes, it’s time to find a good training program.
At the time of this writing, there are more than 160 helicopter flight schools in the United States. Some people opt
for standalone flight schools, while others look for universities or colleges offering aviation degrees. You’ll need to
decide which training path is right for you. While time and
money are usually big factors in this decision, determining
what you want to do with your helicopter rating can help
narrow down which program is right for you.
Murphy, a regular contributor to FAA Safety Briefing,
began her aviation journey at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical
University, where she earned her degree in aeronautical
science in conjunction with ratings through flight instructor. Her ultimate goal was to become an air ambulance
pilot. After graduation, she worked as a flight instructor
and air tour pilot to gain experience and build up her
flight time. Today, she is truly honored to be a part of the
HAA community. Murphy shares, “When people need air
transport, it's usually on the worst day of their lives, and I
appreciate the opportunity to be a part of making it better.”

18 FAA Safety Briefing

It's also important to choose a program that suits your
learning style. Helicopter pilot, director of training, and host
of the Helicopter Training Podcast, Jay Bunning chose the
Leading Edge Flight Academy in Bend, Oregon. This flight
school partners with Central Oregon Community College,
which allows VA-funded students to complete all their ratings
through instrument flight instructor while earning a degree.
While Bunning wasn’t VA-funded and already had a non-aviation degree from the United Kingdom, he enrolled anyway.
He decided he wanted an aviation degree and a learning environment where he could find some “study buddies.” “From
the flight training environment to the friendly mountain
town vibe, it was the perfect fit,” says Bunning.

One important tip to help you on
your path to becoming a helicopter
pilot is to seek out advice and
knowledge from others who have
successfully completed this journey.
Meiris tried three different flight schools searching for
the right fit. She cautions prospective students to be wary
of schools that might drag out flight training. Trying out a
few different schools let her compare the pacing each one
offered. “In the long run, it made me a more well-rounded
pilot,” says Meiris. She encourages students to seek out a
mentor not affiliated with their school’s program. This way,
they can have unbiased guidance as they complete their
education. She also emphasizes the importance of being
your own self-advocate, adding, “Don’t let the school push
you into systems and courses you don’t need.”
Pilots transitioning from fixed-wing to helicopter flying
most likely have experience with flight schools and training
programs. They also have the advantage of knowing where
to look for answers about what training they need. “Open
up the regulations and find out exactly what requirements
you will need to earn your add-on ratings,” Murphy urges.
“Having a strong understanding of what is required will
help you use your time and money more efficiently.”
No matter what flight program you choose, helicopter
training requires a lot of practice. While it’s helpful to know
the minimum hours required by regulations, it’s important
to keep in mind that it will likely take longer. For instance,
a student pilot working towards a private pilot helicopter
certificate is required to log a minimum of 40 hours of
flight time — 20 hours with an instructor and 10 hours
of solo flight time — the completion of one solo crosscounty flight of at least 100 nautical miles with landings at
a minimum of three points, night operations, and 3 hours
of preparation for the practical exam. It could take almost
twice that time to gain the proficiency needed to pass the

practical exam. Transitioning pilots may apply some of
their existing hours toward a helicopter rating to meet the
regulatory training and pilot-in-command requirements.
The actual amount of flying time needed to master the
skills and become proficient varies from person to person.
Testing is the final step. Student pilots will need to take
and pass a written knowledge test and a practical exam.
The written exam isn’t a requirement for pilots transitioning from fixed-wing, but they are required to demonstrate
the knowledge for that helicopter certificate during the
practical exam. For more information on flight time and
testing requirements for private and commercial certificates
and add-on ratings, see the Learn More section at the end.
The path for military pilots transitioning to civilian
flying is a little different. These pilots can use their military
qualifications in place of the traditional training requirements. If this is the route you are taking, start by making
sure you have all the necessary records to document your
military training, ratings, qualifications, and proficiency
checks. After that, prepare for and pass the military
competency knowledge test at an FAA testing center. The
Commercial Pilot – Military Competence (FAA-S-ACS10B) has more information about making this transition.
You can find this ACS at bit.ly/FAAACS.

Words of Wisdom
One important tip to help you on your path to becoming a
helicopter pilot is to seek out advice and knowledge from
others who have successfully completed this journey. Here
are a few words of wisdom from some seasoned professionals to get you started.
Jessica Meiris: Meiris emphasizes understanding the differences between fixed-wing and helicopters — especially
when it comes to reaction times. When things go wrong
in a plane, even with an engine failure, the plane will often
glide for miles. The pilot has time to grab a checklist and
make a radio call. Certainly, there are some cases when
this is not true, but for the most part, a plane is inherently
stable, and there is time to think. Not so in a helicopter. If
you have an engine failure, you have seconds to diagnose
the issue and enter the proper maneuver (called an autorotation) before gliding to the ground. “Depending on
your starting altitude, you'll be on the ground in less than
a minute,” says Meiris. Most helicopter panel lights and
warnings require precise and quick action. “All your emergency procedures and your knowledge of system sounds
must be committed to memory,” adds Meiris.
Jay Bunning: Bunning assures pilots starting out that it’s
normal to move through several companies while building
airframe time and experience. He advises pilots to always
leave their chief pilots with “a good impression that they
will remember the moment your name comes up.” The
helicopter world is tiny. “It’s basically three degrees of

separation or less,”
says Bunning. Chiefs
and employers
call each other
all the time,
asking about
former employees — sometimes
many years after they’ve moved on. This
is why it’s so important to never burn any
bridges, even a little bit. “Finish strong and
do great work right up to your last day, and then
move on with gratitude,” says Bunning.
Leah Murphy: Because of the inherent risks and challenges of flying helicopters, Murphy wants prospective
pilots to make sure their motives are right. “Flying helicopters should never be about looking cool or showing off,”
says Murphy. Mastering flying skills is about more than
passing exams. It is about keeping yourself, your passengers, and everyone on the ground safe. “Be committed to
maintaining proficiency and take the responsibility of being
a pilot seriously,” adds Murphy.
Those who are undaunted by the unique challenges of
flying helicopters, the added time and expense for training,
and the smaller margins for error when dealing with emergency and unexpected situations will be rewarded with
fulfilling and adventurous career opportunities. Helicopters
will take you places that fixed-wing flying can’t. Regardless
of the flight path you choose, the right training and experience are essential to achieve your goals. With proper
training and lots of practice, you’ll be lifting off vertically
before you know it!
Rebekah Waters is an FAA Safety Briefing associate editor. She is a technical writer-editor in
the FAA’s Flight Standards Service.

LEARN MORE

Vertical Aviation Career Pathways, Vertical Aviation International
bit.ly/4psUYeg
How to Become a Helicopter Pilot, Ep. 001, Helicopter Training Podcast
bit.ly/49K05kp
Helicopter Training Videos
helicoptertrainingvideos.com
Making the Military to Civilian Transition, Vertical Aviation International
bit.ly/Mil2Cil
14 CFR § 61.73, Military pilots or former military pilots: Special rules
bit.ly/milComp
So You Want to Be a Helicopter Pilot, FAA Safety Briefing, Jan/Feb 2012
bit.ly/45BRoXR (PDF)

HIGH STAKES
AT LOW ALTITUDES
FAA Oversight in the Demanding World of Medical Helicopter Operations
By Jahrod Coates

W

henever a helicopter air ambulance (HAA) is
dispatched to the scene of a motor vehicle accident
or to a critical trauma patient, the flight must be
airborne within minutes. But unlike commercial airline
flights, there’s no co-pilot, no familiar airfield, and no
established routes. In some cases, the pilot may be headed
to an isolated canyon or roadside they’ve never seen before,
perhaps one that no aircraft has ever landed on, and sometimes in the middle of the night.
“That’s one of the biggest challenges,” said Kurt Skultin,
an aviation safety inspector and former emergency medical
services pilot. “These are almost entirely single-pilot
operations. The workload and responsibility fall heavily on
that one individual who’s making critical flight planning
decisions within minutes of the call.”
Before working for the FAA’s General Aviation and
Commercial Division, Skultin was part of the certificate management team that oversees the nation’s largest 14 CFR part

20 FAA Safety Briefing

135 HAA operator. At the time, he also served as the FAA representative for their Aviation Safety Action Program (ASAP).
The goal of ASAP is to enhance aviation safety by preventing accidents and incidents. Its focus is to encourage
voluntary reporting of safety issues and events that come
to the attention of employees of certain part 121 air carrier
and part 145 repair station certificate holders. However, any
operator, like an air ambulance service, may establish an
ASAP with the FAA. There are currently more than 1,300
participants, including many operating under parts 91 and
135. Details about the program are online at bit.ly/faa-asap.
“When a pilot submits an ASAP report, I could better
understand their decision-making process,” explains Skultin.

Fast-paced Flights, High-stakes Decisions
Medical helicopter operations are challenging for both
pilots and FAA safety inspectors alike. HAA pilots provide
rapid medical transport for critically ill or injured patients

when ground transportation is unavailable or too slow.
The helicopters carry medical professionals and advanced
medical equipment, allowing for in-flight care to be provided. The aim is to quickly and safely transport patients
to a medical facility within the "golden hour," the first sixty
minutes after a trauma, when rapid transport can significantly improve a patient's chance of survival. Unlike part
121 air carrier operations, HAA missions are unscheduled
and can be unpredictable.
“In air ambulance, you get a call at 2 a.m., and you may
be heading into unfamiliar terrain. You may not have ever
landed there before,” notes Skultin.
Despite the urgency, HAA pilots are required to conduct a
pre-flight risk analysis before takeoff. Under 14 CFR section
135.617, pilots must review hazards, terrain, weather, Notices
to Airmen (NOTAMs), fuel, weight and balance, and more.
“This risk analysis has been a great step forward for
safety,” Skultin explains. “It formalizes a process that many
experienced pilots used instinctively but brings it into a
structured framework.”
Still, the analysis, along with other safety planning, must
be completed rapidly — often in less than 10 minutes.
Pilots typically receive support and confer with an operational control center, but the bulk of the decision-making
remains on the pilot’s shoulders.

Building Trust, Reducing Risk
Providing oversight for such a dynamic environment is a
significant undertaking. Not all air ambulance bases are
alike, and no two missions are the same. Traditional surveillance tools, such as scheduled ramp checks or in-flight
observations, don’t easily apply.

“HAA oversight isn’t like standard 121 or 135 operations,” Skultin explains. “The pilots are flying into unfamiliar, off-airport environments. It’s diverse, and sometimes unpredictable.”
The Denver Flight Standards District Office (FSDO) has
been proactive in fostering transparency and collaboration
with HAA operators. That trust is vital in an operation where
mitigating risk is key. While technological tools like terrain
awareness systems and night vision goggles are great safety
tools, culture and communication are equally important.
“We’ve seen progress where there’s open dialogue,” he
notes. “When pilots know the FAA isn’t just there to check
the box, but to understand the operation, they’re more
likely to share concerns and engage in safety reporting.”
“It’s not just about checking manuals or processes,” he
continues. “It’s understanding what the pilot is experiencing when they get that request in the middle of the night to
respond to a call.”
And while every mission is different, the goal remains the
same: ensuring that the people who respond in moments of
crisis can do so safely, confidently, and effectively.
Jahrod Coates is a contractor supporting the FAA’s Office of Aviation Safety (AVS) as a writer
for the AVS Flyer.
LEARN MORE

Don’t Fly Fatigued Video
bit.ly/fatiguevideo
USHST Peer Pilot Program
ushstpeer.org

A Virtual
Approach
to the
Real Future
Researching Virtual Reality to Make
(FAA photo by Amanda Werner)

Helicopter Training Better
By James Williams

T

he weather is closing in; you push forward, hoping to
slip in before anything worse comes along. No such luck.
As the rain pounds heavily, your visibility drops, and
you lose sight of the airport. You realize your mistake was
not turning around 10 minutes ago when you had a clear
path of retreat. But now, as you look around, all you can see
is trouble. You attempt to turn around, but the controls feel
heavy. Is it the rain? Is it just your imagination and the stress?
The last thing you see is a stand of trees rushing up to meet
you, then darkness. “Okay, let’s try that again,” a voice says
over the headset as the image in front of you resets.
Simulation has long been a key tool in aviation training,
and it’s easy to understand why. As with any high-stakes
endeavor, the consequences of a mistake in flight can
be fatal, so we seek ways to reduce risk through training
where errors are common. The challenge is often how
realistic we can make that training. While even low-fidelity
simulations can be beneficial, higher fidelity simulation
solutions have been out of reach for most of the general
aviation world due to their significantly higher costs.

22 FAA Safety Briefing

However, the convergence of more affordable computing
power, high-resolution virtual reality (VR) equipment, and
enhanced commercial flight simulation has made high-fidelity simulation possible in places that were previously
inconceivable. The question is: How can we better utilize
this technology to further enhance pilot training?

A Virtual Hypothesis
In part to answer that question, the Vertical Flight Aviation
Safety Technologies Laboratory and Cockpit Simulation
Facility (VFAST/CSF) at the FAA’s William J. Hughes
Technical Center for Advanced Aerospace (WJHTC)
conducted research to determine the benefits of using VR
simulation to train new helicopter pilots before flying the
real aircraft through a formal research study: VR-HeliSTART
(Virtual Reality-Helicopter Simulator Training for Airplane
to Rotorcraft Transition). The underlying research question
of this work was “while VR simulation certainly increases
immersion at a significantly lower budget, does that
immersion translate into more effective training?”

(FAA photo by Amanda Werner)

Like many large-scale applied
research studies, the biggest
challenge in designing and
executing the VR-HeliSTART pilot
transition study was the unknown.

(FAA photo by Cliff Johnson)

“Like many large-scale applied research studies,
the biggest challenge in designing and executing the
VR-HeliSTART pilot transition study was the unknown,”
explains Cliff Johnson, vertical flight safety research lead/
engineer and co-principal investigator of the study with
WJHTC. “Going into the study, there were questions about
how the pilots would respond to the training, how the
instructors (Nick Mayhew and Stephane Rebeix) would
teach using VR technology, and how the skills would transfer to the actual helicopter, if at all.” VFAST/CSF is ideally
positioned to investigate this issue, as it is a cutting-edge
facility dedicated to enhancing flight safety through
advanced simulation and flight technologies. VFAST/CSF
utilizes a range of helicopter, general aviation, commercial, and powered lift simulators, including traditional and
virtual reality platforms, which can be integrated with other
simulation and flight test platforms at the FAA, Department
of War, and industry. The lab conducts groundbreaking
research, including experimental studies on future pilot
training using rotorcraft loss of control, enhanced vision
systems, vertiport symbology, and cybersecurity for position, navigation, and timing. The laboratory collaborates
with industry, academia, and government partners to
revolutionize flight training, improve pilot/air traffic control
routing/procedures, and increase overall safety standards
within the National Airspace System (NAS).

Study participants attend a ground school lesson.

The VR-HeliSTART study examined the benefits of conducting primary transition training equivalent to a typical
commercial add-on program for airplane pilots transitioning to rotorcraft. The study recruited 11 students from
Marshall University in Charleston, W.Va. The participants
had varying levels of airplane experience, including student
pilots to private pilots, commercial pilots, and flight instructors. During the 15-week experiment, pilots were provided
both ground and simulator flight instruction in a threestage course format. A typical week consisted of one 2-hour
ground lesson and two to three 1.5-hour simulator lessons.
Every fifth week, participants flew a stage check in the
university’s Airbus Helicopters H125 simulator, which was
followed by a stage check in an actual H125 helicopter. Pilot
performance data from all of the stage checks were recorded
and analyzed to determine if the use of VR flight simulation
provides positive transfer of training and skills equivalent to
meet existing Airman Certification Standards (ACS).
“VR is a new technology, and with any new technology,
there are benefits and limitations which become apparent
after time is spent working with the devices both in a laboratory and training environment,” said Stephanie
Stead, a computer scientist
with VFAST/CSF, when
asked about any limitations
of VR technology. “We have
several studies underway
to help uncover what those
limitations may be and how
to better address them.” She
continued, “Currently, the
FAA qualifies flight simulation training devices based
on standards developed
prior to the introduction of
VR technology. Therefore,
our research efforts use
the expertise of our team

An example of the VR simulator used in the study.
March/April 2026 23

(FAA photo by Cliff Johnson)

It may seem self-evident that new technology would
offer previously unavailable advantages, but it is not always
that simple. Rigorously and impartially determining
efficacy is critical before attempting to modify standards,
policies, or guidance. Another key consideration is how to
utilize the benefits effectively. Resources are finite, especially time, and finding the optimal use strategy for a given
technology enables operators to maximize the number of
pilots trained while improving both the quality of training
and the safety of the operation, potentially reducing costs
as well. Well-structured and executed studies, such as the
one discussed here, are an essential part of that process.
and capabilities at the VFAST/CSF laboratory, along with
our industry partners, including simulator manufacturers
(e.g. Loft Dynamics, CAE, ACME, ASTi) to update these
standards to allow for virtual reality device qualifications.”
Stead notes that the efforts have already contributed to
the qualification of three virtual reality devices (Loft
Dynamics’s H125, Tru Systems Bell 505, and Leonardo’s
AW119) as Level 7 flight simulation and training devices
within the last year, with additional systems and levels
expected in the near future.

The Results Are In …
While the final report is still pending, we do have some preliminary results that show promise. They indicate that the
protocol used in this experiment produces pilots with skill
levels that enable them to operate a helicopter safely, with
the majority of students performing at or above the private
pilot ACS standards for most maneuvers. The team also
discovered the benefits of safely experiencing many fatal
accident causal factors, such as loss of control, unintended
instrument meteorological conditions, and low-altitude
operations, in a high-fidelity simulation environment.
“We were surprised at the level of proficiency that the
pilots obtained in such a short time,” explains Dr. Eleni
Sotiropoulos, a co-principal investigator for the study, an
engineer at Rowan University, and a core member of the
team. “With tailored simulator instruction, most of the
pilots, [even some without an airplane private pilot rating]
were hovering in the helicopter during their first stage
check flight, even though they had little or no prior experience flying a helicopter.”
“Instructing in the VR environment demands a different approach but in many ways is more efficient, especially when teaching low-speed and hovering maneuvers,”
explains Nick Mayhew, one of the study instructors. “The
instructor sits offboard with mouse pointer control in the
VR headset, can play dynamic pre-recorded maneuvers,
and has full access to all the controls with the ability to
isolate individual controls, including the cyclic in lateral
and fore/aft direction.”
24 FAA Safety Briefing

We were surprised at the level of
proficiency that the pilots obtained
in such a short time.
The Flight Path Ahead
The VFAST/CSF team is looking ahead to build on this
experience. They intend to expand on this preliminary
research to investigate aspects of offboard training, simulation training, and other related topics as they apply to a
full rating for a comparable helicopter. This information
will help develop new standards for commercial and initial
training for the next generation of rotorcraft and powered-lift pilots using virtual reality flight simulation.
“Our team continues to move the future of vertical
flight forward by investigating how to safely integrate new
technologies to enhance rotorcraft/vertical flight safety,”
Johnson said. “Some of the areas that are on our horizon
include engineering and training aspects of virtual reality
and simulated air traffic control environments for both
initial, add-on, recurrent, and advanced ratings, modifying
criteria for instrument approach and departure procedures
to allow operations that permit IFR to the surface, as well
as supporting all of the U.S. Helicopter Safety Team’s active
and planned future safety enhancements.”
With the large-scale expansion of vertical flight expected
soon, demand for competent, safe pilots is likely to surge.
Therefore, improving our current training system will
enhance our ability to meet that demand without compromising safety.
James Williams is FAA Safety Briefing’s associate editor and photo editor. He is also a pilot
and ground instructor.

LEARN MORE

Vertical Flight Aviation Safety Technologies Laboratory (VFAST)
vfast.faa.gov

Modernization of Special Airworthiness Certification
(MOSAIC) Fact Sheet
Building upon the foundation of the 2004 final rule Certification of Aircraft and Airmen for the
Operation of Light-Sport Aircraft, MOSAIC responds to evolving aviation and airmen needs,
providing for future growth and innovation while maintaining the highest level of safety.
MOSAIC increases the availability of safe, modern, and affordable aircraft for recreational
aviation, flight training, and certain aerial work.
MOSAIC provides broad regulatory relief to the public based on 20 years of safety data.

Key Components of MOSAIC:

1. Light-Spot Category
Aircraft Certification

2. Sport Pilot
Certification

3. Maintenance and
Repairman (Light-Sport)

4. Operations

Publication and Effective Dates
MOSAIC final rule was published on July 24, 2025, with two effective dates:
October 22, 2025 (90 days after publication)

July 24, 2026 (365 days after publication)

Pilot training and certification rules
and privileges

Removal of “light-sport aircraft” definition
from 14 CFR § 1.1

Repairman certification, maintenance rules,
and tow-hitch installation

Airworthiness certification requirements

Class G airspace and right-of-way rules

Changes in operations, including operating
limitations
March/April 2026 25

1 Light-Sport Category

Aircraft Certification

2 Sport Pilot Certification

MOSAIC amends 14 CFR part 21 and
adds part 22 to:
Adopt more performance-based rules
to expand and enable innovation in
the classes of aircraft that may be
certificated as light-sport category
aircraft using consensus standards.
This includes emerging aircraft types.
Allow manufacturers of light-sport
category aircraft to design and
manufacture a broader array of aircraft,
including rotorcraft and powered-lift.
Remove prescriptive weight limits that
hinder incorporation of safety-enhancing
designs and equipment.
Increase the maximum stalling speed
for light-sport category airplanes (61
knots VS0) and gliders (45 knots VS0).
Allow faster, higher-performing aircraft
for personal travel.
Enable more capable and robust aircraft
for pilot training.
Allow for increased capacities for
passengers, fuel, and cargo.
Allow new types of propulsion systems
(like electric), any number of engines,
new propeller
types, and
retractable
landing gear.
Allow aircraft with
simplified flight
controls, enabling
reduced flight
hours for pilot
certification.

26 FAA Safety Briefing

MOSAIC 14 CFR part 61 Subpart J § 61.316
changes performance and design limitations,
expanding what aircraft sport pilots can operate.
Removes aircraft weight and
airspeed limitation.
Permits use of any powerplant type except
turbo-jet powered.
New VS1 maximum stalling speed (flaps
retracted) of 59 knots CAS.
Allows operating aircraft with retractable
landing gear.
Allows operating airplanes with manual
controllable pitch propeller.
Allows use of 4-seat airplanes but retains
2 occupant limitation.
Night operation privileges.
NOTE: the aircraft must meet the above requirements at
the time of original certification.

2 Sport Pilot Certification Cont.
New Simplified Flight Controls Designation and Required Training
The FAA created a new type of aircraft with simplified flight controls which can be operated by
any pilot at any certification level. This aircraft will have the automated ability to control the flight
path using the available power and prevent loss of control under likely circumstances, regardless
of pilot input. (§ 22.180)
Model specific training and endorsement is required for pilots seeking to act as pilot-in-command
of aircraft with the simplified flight controls designation. Pilots must possess the appropriate
category and class rating or privilege.
Simplified flight controls endorsement is available to all pilot certificate levels. (§ 61.31(l))
Both part 61 subpart H and subpart K flight instructors are required to obtain the make and
model endorsement prior to conducting flight instruction in that make and model of aircraft with
simplified flight controls designation. (§ 61.195(m) and § 61.415(m))
Sport pilot certification experience requirements are found under part 61 (subpart J) and flight
instructor certificate with sport pilot rating experience requirements are found under part 61
(subpart K).

New Sport Pilot Practical Tests
The FAA published new sport pilot testing standards in § 61.14 titled:
Sport Pilot Rotorcraft Category Helicopter — Simplified Flight Controls Privileges Airman
Certification Standards.
Flight Instructor with a Sport Pilot Rating for Rotorcraft Category Helicopter — Simplified Flight
Controls Privileges Airman Certification Standards.
Sport pilots or flight instructors with a sport pilot rating seeking to add an airplane privilege
or helicopter simplified flight controls privilege to an existing pilot certificate or flight instructor
certificate must take a practical test with a pilot examiner.
March/April 2026 27

3 Maintenance and Repairman (Light-Sport)
Changes to Maintenance of Light-Sport Category Aircraft
Airworthiness Directive (AD) compliance is mandatory, while compliance with manufacturer-issued
safety directives (SDs) is recommended.
Major repairs and major alterations must be authorized by either the manufacturer or a person
acceptable to the FAA.
Authorization for minor repairs and minor alterations is not required.
Major alterations and major repairs must be performed and inspected in accordance with maintenance
and inspection procedures developed by the manufacturer or a person acceptable to the FAA.

Changes to Light-Sport Repairman Certificate Eligibility and Privileges
(Reference 14 CFR §§ 65.107 and 65.109)
U.S. citizenship not required.
Certificate privileges are defined by aircraft
category: Airplane, Glider, Rotorcraft,
Powered-lift, Weight-Shift-Control, Powered
Parachute, and Lighter-Than-Air (LTA).

Certificate privileges for experimental
aircraft now also include:
 mateur-built aircraft (EAB) – § 21.191(g)
A
 it-built light sport – § 21.191(k)
K
F ormer light-sport category – § 21.191(l)

Certificate limitations, based on training,
are issued by aircraft class: Rotorcraftgyroplane, Rotorcraft-helicopter, LTA-airship,
and LTA-balloon.

Inspection-rated repairmen may only
work on aircraft they own; N-Number
and serial number are no longer listed
on the certificate.

NOTE: EAB aircraft with operating limitations issued prior to Oct. 22, 2025, must obtain revised operating limitations that permit
a light-sport repairman to perform the annual condition inspection.
NOTE: EAB Repairman Certificates issued under 14 CFR § 65.104 were not addressed in the MOSAIC rulemaking. Eligibility,
privileges, and limitations for these certificates are found in 14 CFR § 65.104 and have not changed.

Changes to Light-Sport Repairman Training Course Acceptance
Codified requirements for training course providers:
Administer a course test
70% passing test score per § 65.17
Issue a certificate of completion
Have appropriate facilities, equipment, & materials
Have appropriately qualified instructors
Training course acceptance issued based on aircraft category, and class when applicable
(e.g., Airplane, Rotorcraft-Gyroplane).
Maintenance rating training courses must include applicable content from the mechanic Airman
Certification Standards (ACS). FAA-acceptance is based on course content instead of specified
course hours.
Course content that was FAA-accepted and being taught before the MOSAIC final rule continues
to be “appropriate” content.
28 FAA Safety Briefing

4 Operations
MOSAIC Changes: Part 91 Flight Operations
New Experimental Aircraft Operations
Allows the FAA to issue operating limitations for certain aircraft with experimental airworthiness
certificates to conduct operations over densely populated areas, in congested airways, or both,
for all phases of flight.
Allows former military aircraft that have an experimental airworthiness certificate to operate
under certain new purposes, like repositioning the aircraft for operation as a public aircraft.

New Flight Operations
Restricted category aircraft
Allows relocation to exhibitions, trade shows, and other events.
Light-sport category aircraft
Allows aerial work operations for certain light-sport category aircraft.
Specifies additional requirements to tow a glider or an unpowered ultralight vehicle IAW
§ 91.309 and § 21.190 for compensation or hire.
 llows a maximum limit of 4 occupants for airplanes and 2 occupants for other aircraft
A
(sport pilots are still limited to 2 occupants).
Experimental aircraft space support vehicle flights
 odifies space support vehicle flight operations for certain experimental aircraft to conduct
C
space support flights.
Allows for carriage of persons or property for compensation or hire without an air carrier
certificate or exemption.

New Operating Rules
Towing: gliders & unpowered ultralights
Clarifies allowable process to attach a tow hitch to eligible light-sport category aircraft.
Right-of-way rules
Clarifies and revises operating rules to include more aircraft, including those with
non-traditional forms of propulsion.
Operations in Class G airspace
Includes more aircraft and improves aircraft separation by considering operational needs,
aircraft configurations, and speeds to enhance avoiding dissimilar aircraft.

March/April 2026 29

30 FAA Safety Briefing

FAA resources and safety reminders

CHECKLIST

JAMES WILLIAMS

VERTICAL VALUE

Time is by far the most critical
resource we have. Always ticking away
and never recoverable (unless you have
a spare flux capacitor and Delorian
lying around). Given the critical nature
of this resource, it can sometimes be
challenging to find a reliable source
to stay up to date with the latest
safety information quickly. While we
certainly recommend reading FAA
Safety Briefing regularly, our rotorcraft
coverage is usually limited. However,
several other excellent sources are
available. First, the U.S. Helicopter
Safety Team (USHST) provides a valuable resource for quickly accessing
reliable information on key topics.

THE HELICOPTER FLYING HANDBOOK
IS THE FAA’S OFFICIAL REPOSITORY
OF BASIC KNOWLEDGE ON
HELICOPTER OPERATIONS.
Join the Team
As explained in "The USHST: Find Out
What It Means for Helicopter Safety"
on page seven of this issue, USHST is
a volunteer group comprising government and industry stakeholders
formed to enhance the safety of civil
helicopter operations. USHST employs
a multifaceted approach to achieve that
objective. That approach has generated
a wealth of resources for the helicopter community, which are housed on
their website. Given the varied nature
of helicopter operations, not every
resource or format will be best suited
to any particular operator. That’s why
USHST provides information on a
range of topics in various formats to
reach the widest possible audience.
The USHST produces helicopter
safety enhancements (H-SEs) that

address key safety
issues for the rotorcraft community.
These H-SEs are
available in their
normal report
format but can also
be explored as podcasts or short
online videos — some even boasting
their own mini-website. USHST also
focuses on pilot mental health in
the helicopter world. To help prioritize mental health in the community, USHST launched its Peer Pilot
Program. It offers a confidential,
non-punitive, and professionally supported system where helicopter pilots
can speak freely with trained volunteers. By providing a peer to speak
with, the hope is to remove barriers
that might otherwise obstruct seeking
help. All this and more is available at
ushst.org.
It's in a Book
If you’re not already a helicopter
pilot and maybe just a bit whirlybird
curious, or you’re already familiar with
rotorcraft but want to brush up on
some of the basics, there’s always the
Helicopter Flying Handbook (HFH).
The HFH is the FAA’s official repository of basic knowledge on helicopter
operations. It covers everything from
the basic history and uses of helicopters to
advanced
flight maneuvers. The
HFH is no
replacement
for effective
ground training, but it
can be a force
multiplier.

The HFH is a free, authoritative
resource that you can use either before
or as a part of your training. It's a
200-page-or-so head start that can
help you identify areas to focus on
in your time with your instructor. At
the very least, a good grounding in
helicopter anatomy will be an excellent time-saver, particularly if you’re
coming from the fixed-wing world.
These are just a couple of resources
available to you at no cost. I encourage you to look at both of them. As a
fixed-wing pilot, these resources have
enabled me to explore a world that has
always fascinated me but was previously out of reach. I’ve always enjoyed
discussions of helicopter flying and
how different the approach to similar
situations can be. And who hasn’t
been stuck in traffic and thought
about zipping right over it and setting
down right next to your destination.
Additionally, arriving by helicopter is
likely one of the most impressive ways
to travel. Hopefully, these trusted
resources can save you time and make
all your helicopter adventures safer.
James Williams is FAA Safety Briefing’s associate editor and
photo editor. He is also a pilot and ground instructor.

LEARN MORE

U.S. Helicopter Safety Team (USHST)
ushst.org
FAA Helicopter Flying Handbook
bit.ly/FAAHelicopterHandbook

March/April 2026 31

DRONE DEBRIEF

32

FAA Safety Briefing

drone safety roundup

GA maintenance issues

NUTS, BOLTS, AND ELECTRONS

REBEKAH WATERS

PROCEDURAL PITFALLS

In January 2014, a Eurocopter EC130
helicopter departed the Boulder City
Airport (BVU) for a post-maintenance check flight. The flight only
lasted ten minutes. On final approach,
the pilot observed a “low pressure”
warning light followed by a sudden
complete loss of engine power. At 200
feet, the pilot initiated an autorotation, and the aircraft came to a rest
on its side. The post-accident investigation determined the maintenance
technician didn’t follow appropriate
procedures. Despite continued training and focus on procedure following,
failure to follow procedures (FFP)
remains a leading human factors challenge in aviation maintenance.
Investigations estimate that FFP
contributes between 40.5% to 87%
of all maintenance-related events. In
the example above, the maintenance
technician used an alternative procedure to replace a part. The technician

removed the fuel tank to access the
“dog bone” (bi-directional suspension
crossbar) instead of removing the
transmission/gearbox. This led to a
loose B-nut and missing safety wire,
causing a loss of fuel flow and a forced
landing. Luckily, the pilot was okay,
but the helicopter sustained substantial damage. The NTSB listed FFP as a
contributing factor.

FOLLOWING PROPER
MAINTENANCE PROCEDURES IS
AN IMPORTANT SAFETY PRACTICE,
NO MATTER WHAT TYPE OF
AIRCRAFT YOU MAINTAIN.
Maintenance technicians have
the technical knowledge to perform
their jobs safely, yet the FFP problem
persists. There is no one cause of FFP;

THE FAA OFFERS TRAINING AND
TOOLS FOR MAINTAINERS AND
ORGANIZATIONS LOOKING TO
REDUCE FFP AT BIT.LY/STOPFFP.
rather, numerous factors contribute to
it. For example, schedule and production pressure or physical environmental conditions can contribute to an
FFP event. Other factors that lead to
FFP include the complexity and difficulty of understanding or applying the
written procedures themselves.
The FAA offers training and tools
for maintainers and organizations
looking to reduce FFP at bit.ly/
StopFFP. You can also find tools like
task cards and decision aid guides.
One great training resource is the
FAASTeam course “The Buck Stops
With Me” available at bit.ly/AMTbuck,
which offers credit in the AMT
Awards Program.
Following proper maintenance procedures is an important safety practice, no matter what type of aircraft
you maintain. Reducing FFP events
and improving safety culture requires
continuous effort, a shared commitment to championing safety, and a
culture of procedure following.
Rebekah Waters is an FAA Safety Briefing associate
editor. She is a technical writer-editor in the FAA’s Flight
Standards Service.

LEARN MORE

In this video still, the top arrow points to a loose B-nut on the fuel line, and the bottom arrow shows the safety wire hanging
from the B-nut.

Deviating from Maintenance Procedures Can Be
Deadly Video, The Rotorcraft Collective
bit.ly/DeadlyDeviations

January/February 2026 33

VERTICALLY SPEAKING

34

FAA Safety Briefing

safety issues for rotorcraft pilots

letters from the FAA Safety Briefing mailbag

FLIGHT FORUM

the legality of using these devices in
the cockpit; it's about when and under
what circumstances to properly use
them. Using an electronic flight bag
for navigation is common these days,
but it, too, can cause a distraction
severe enough to wreck the situational
awareness it's supposed to enhance.
Watch this video for some tips on
managing the use of portable electronic devices to a reasonable level.

Check out our GA Safety
Facebook page at
Facebook.com/groups/
GASafety.
If you’re not a member, we encourage
you to join the group of nearly 17,000
participants in the GA community
who share safety principles and best
practices, participate in positive and
safe engagement with the FAA Safety
Team (FAASTeam), and post relevant
GA content that makes the National
Airspace System safer.

The Rotorcraft Collective
The Rotorcraft Collective is
a joint workgroup between
the FAA and industry professionals
that produces short helicopter-focused
safety videos in collaboration with
the FAA Safety Team (FAASTeam)
and the U.S. Helicopter Safety Team
(USHST). Team members include
engineers, pilots, mechanics, accident
investigators, and communication
specialists from various FAA offices,
Vertical Aviation International
(VAI), Helicopter Institute, Airbus
Helicopters, Hughes Aerospace, Pilot
Institute, City of Charleston, and
Helicopter Training Videos (HTV).

Check out the playlist to see what
everyone is talking about and pick up
some helicopter safety tips.

Great PSA. Great lesson. Thank
you. Note to others... if you are being
distracted by your smartwatch notifications, in the settings, simply turn off the
feature.
— @Eltoca21
Speaking of which …

bit.ly/RotorYT

Flying in the Unforgiving
Wire Environment
Many pilots mistakenly believe they
will have sufficient reaction time
if they encounter power lines and
other wires. Yet wire strikes have
been among the top three causes of
fatal helicopter accidents for more
than a decade. Chris Hill, a wirestrike survivor and Vertical Aviation
International’s senior director of safety,
talks about technologies to supplement
your obstacle-avoidance efforts, along
with wire-strike avoidance techniques.
Great intro to the wire environment.
— @dfeers
Very informative presentation, it was
nice to know. Thanks!
— @annat5736
PEDs Can Cause Deadly Distractions
Using a portable electronic device
while flying can be distracting.
Nonessential usage adds risk to your
flight. The discussion here is not about

Tips to Safely Use a Smartwatch on
the Flight Deck
Many pilots wear smartwatches
while flying. With GPS capabilities,
aviation-specific watches can serve
as emergency navigation tools and
even find the nearest airports, complete with maps, NEXRAD, current
weather, and radio frequencies. This
video discusses the benefits and tips
for safely using a smartwatch in the air.
The Garmin D2 series is a pilot focused
watch. You can use them to do a
Direct-To to nearby airports, read the
METAR/TAF, and a good bit more.
Mine logs my flights when I take off.
— @mweb586
For more stories and news,
check out our blog “Cleared for
Takeoff” at medium.com/FAA.

Let us hear from you! Send your
comments, suggestions, and questions
to SafetyBriefing@faa.gov. You can
also reach us on X (formerly known as
Twitter) @FAASafetyBrief.
We may edit letters for style and/or
length. Due to our publishing schedule,
responses may not appear for several issues.
While we do not print anonymous letters,
we will withhold names or send personal
replies upon request. If you have a concern
with an immediate FAA operational
issue, contact your local Flight Standards
District Office or air traffic facility.
March/April 2026 35

ON FINAL

an editor's perspective

TOM HOFFMANN

A BEGINNER'S GUIDE TO ROTORCRAFT TERMINOLOGY

Gyrodyne photo from May 19, 1938.

36

In preparing for this rotorcraft-themed
issue of FAA Safety Briefing, I explored
several compelling resources regarding
the vertical aviation industry. Despite
logging 1.2 hours at the controls of a
Robinson R-44, it became clear that
there is a lot still to learn. I made it
a quest of sorts to run down some
definitions and gain a clearer understanding of the rotorcraft realm and
what makes this sector of aviation so
unique.

more of a legacy concept from decades
past, their “best of both worlds” design
concept is being revitalized to some
degree with certain electric vertical
takeoff and landing (eVTOL) designs.

A Similar but Different Spin

As the Rotor Turns

Let’s start with some of the basics.
Although you might hear the terms
"rotorcraft" and "helicopter" used
interchangeably, there is an important distinction between the two.
“Rotorcraft” is a broader category
of heavier-than-air aircraft that uses
rotors to provide lift. A "helicopter,"
on the other hand, is a specific class
of rotorcraft that depends principally
on its engine-driven rotors for its
horizontal motion. All helicopters fall
under the category of rotorcraft, but
not all rotorcraft are helicopters.
Another class of rotorcraft you may
be familiar with is the autogyro or
gyroplane. A gyroplane is a rotorcraft
whose rotors are free-spinning and
not engine-driven (except for initial
starting), and whose means of propulsion is independent of the rotor system.
A gyroplane may have wings, be either
tractor- or pusher-configured, and can
be either turbine- or propeller-powered.
A third and relatively lesser-known
rotorcraft class is the gyrodyne. A
gyrodyne is basically a hybrid of the
gyroplane and helicopter; it uses
engine-driven rotors for takeoff,
hovering, and landing, and conventional propulsion systems (propeller
or jet engines) during cruise portions
of flight. Although gyrodynes are

Many helicopters employ a single main
rotor design, but there are actually
several different configurations that
offer their own advantages. Tandem (or
dual) rotors use two large horizontal
rotor assemblies. These counter-rotating rotors cancel each other’s torque
and eliminate the need for the tail rotor
you see on single rotor designs. Having
two blade sets allows tandem rotors
to carry more weight, putting them
among the most powerful and fastest
designs. A good example is the iconic
Boeing CH-47 Chinook.
Other configurations include
coaxial rotors (two stacked rotors
turning opposite directions on the
same mast) and intermeshing rotors
(a set of two rotors set at an angle to
each other that intermesh without
colliding). The latter design provides
stability and heavy-lifting and can also
operate without a tail rotor.

FAA Safety Briefing

ALL HELICOPTERS FALL UNDER THE
CATEGORY OF ROTORCRAFT, BUT NOT
ALL ROTORCRAFT RE HELICOPTERS.

It’s a Collective Effort
As a fixed-wing flyer, my first time at
the controls of a helicopter was bewildering to say the least. My hands and
feet were equally busy learning how to
finesse the controls that seemed more
intricately interconnected than what I
was used to. Changes to pitch, power,
or yaw were all part of a delicate

balancing act, with each having some
effect on the other. Instead of making
the familiar aileron, elevator, rudder,
and throttle inputs, I was maneuvering the cyclic (commonly a joystick
between the legs, or in my case, a
T-bar configuration), the collective
(a lever down by the side of the pilot’s
seat), and the antitorque pedals.
The cyclic functions much like a
fixed-wing yoke, center stick or with
inputs tilting the main rotor disk to
provide forward, back, and side-toside motion. The collective changes
the pitch angle of all the main rotor
blades at the same time (collectively) to
control altitude and airspeed. In many
cases, the throttle is integrated with the
collective to increase power and offset
the increased drag on the rotor blades.
And much like rudder pedals, the antitorque pedals provide a yawing motion
around the vertical axis by changing
the pitch on the tail rotor blades.
While my feeble first attempt at
mastering these controls during a
hover likely amused my instructor,
the ability to “pause” in mid-air is a
sensation unlike any other I’ve experienced in aviation. Even if you don’t
have the chance to take a chopper for
a spin, expanding your knowledge of
rotorcraft flight dynamics can sharpen
your understanding of airflow, energy,
and control inputs and elevate your
airmanship to a new level.

Did You Know? … the word “helicopter” is
adapted from the French word hélicoptère, coined
by Gustave de Ponton d’Amécourt in 1861. It is
linked to the Greek words helix or helikos, meaning
spiral or turning, and pteron, meaning wing.
Tom Hoffmann is the editor of FAA Safety Briefing. He is a
commercial pilot and holds an A&P certificate.

FAA employee profile

FAA FACES

TOM HOFFMANN

BRIAN SEIBEL
Aviation Safety Inspector, FAA’s General Aviation and Commercial Division

A native of Sacramento, Calif., Brian
Seibel got his first taste of flying in
a UH-1 Huey helicopter during an
ROTC orientation weekend minicamp at the University of Colorado,
Boulder. “I never had much interest
in aviation before, but after that first
flight, I was hooked.”
While nearsightedness kept him
from pursuing a military aviation
career, he completed his civil engineering degree at CU Boulder and
served 4 years in the Air Force stationed at Vandenberg Air Force Base.
While there, he spent his weekends
taking lessons at the local helicopter
flight school, ultimately earning his
commercial, instrument, and flight
instructor helicopter certificates.
After the Air Force, Brian worked
as an instructor and then as an offshore oil and gas helicopter pilot for
five years, before pivoting again to a
career in the helicopter air ambulance
(HAA) industry. “I chose an HAA
career because I liked the thought of
helping people in need, and how this
challenging environment suited my
personality and skill set.” Brian took a
job in Alaska as an HAA pilot, even-

tually transferring to Cheyenne, Wyo.,
and then to Northern Colorado.
Twelve years and two children
later, Brian realized the challenge of
balancing sleepless nights with the
fatigue factor of an already difficult
career field. “I saw an opening for an
aviation safety inspector at the Denver
FSDO and applied,” said Brian. “My
hope was that I could use my 20 years
of helicopter flying experience to give
back to the aviation community by
ultimately helping effect change, both
inside and outside the FAA.”

AS HELICOPTER PILOTS, WE NEED TO
BECOME MORE EDUCATED ABOUT
THE ENTIRE NATIONAL AIRSPACE
SYSTEM AND EMBRACE THE
POSITIVE SAFETY CULTURE THAT IS
EVOLVING RIGHT NOW.
Brian later joined the FAA’s General
Aviation and Commercial Division in
2025 and recently began a new role to
help update the Flight Standards General Aviation Safety Promotion Policy.
“The desired goal
is for us to be able
to use real-time
data to identify
specific highrisk areas in the
GA community,
then focus our
outreach efforts
to address the
identified issues,
while being able
to evaluate our
effectiveness in
reducing the risks
based on measur-

able outcomes,” explained Brian. Brian
is expanding these safety promotion
efforts within the rotorcraft community and is strengthening collaboration with the U.S. Helicopter Safety
Team (USHST).
As an experienced helicopter
pilot, Brian understands the challenges airmen face in this unique
aviation subculture and the value of
safety education support networks.
“As helicopter pilots, we need to
become more educated about the
entire National Airspace System and
embrace the positive safety culture
that is evolving right now,” said Brian.
“Part of that responsibility is speaking
up about safety concerns related to
our industry, along with proposing
any potential controls, mitigations,
or corrective actions to help address
them.” This is especially important
with the integration of powered-lift,
optionally piloted aircraft, and
unmanned aircraft systems.
While Brian no longer actively
flies, he does look forward to joining a flying club in the future. In the
meantime, Brian and his family enjoy
attending local air shows and fly-ins,
grabbing lunch at the nearby airport
restaurants, and watching the local
hot air balloon festival from lawn
chairs in his backyard.

U.S. Department
of Transportation
Federal Aviation
Administration
800 Independence Ave., S.W.
Washington, D.C. 20591
FORWARDING SERVICE REQUESTED
Official Business
Penalty for Private Use $300

LOOK WHO’S READING
FAA Safety Briefing
“I read to help me build on VAI’s legacy of safety
leadership in the vertical aviation community.”
— François Lassale
President & CEO
Vertical Aviation International

verticalavi.org

