Fatal cargo plane crash: Miami-Dade sheriff identifies 5 dead; NTSB plans 7 p.m. update

MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, Fla. — As the investigation into the fatal cargo plane crash in Miami-Dade County continues, National Transportation Safety Board Chairwoman Jennifer Homendy plans to update the public at 7 p.m. on Tuesday.
Five people died, and five people were injured after a Boeing 767-300 overtook Miami International Airport’s runway 30 shortly before 2 p.m. on Sunday and struck a white 2012 Ford E-150 Econoline van at MIA and a Toyota Corolla Cross LE on Northwest 67th Avenue, according to Homendy.
On Tuesday morning, Miami-Dade Sheriff Rosie Cordero-Stutz identified the five dead who were traveling in the Econoline van as Rolando Aleman Leon, 55; Yoel Rodriguez Naranjo, 53; Julio C. Pineda, 75; Carlos Acosta Fajardo, 53; and Javierkys Reyes Quevedo, 47.
“There were a total of seven in that van,” Cordero-Stutz said.
Three who were injured remained hospitalized, according to Cordero-Stutz. MDSO identified them as Eugenio Corredor, whose condition is critical; Ridoel Averhoff Diaz, 32, whose condition is critical; and Roosevelt Sebastian Perdomo Torres, 36, whose condition is stable.
“The two pilots were treated and have since been released,” Cordero-Stutz said.
MDSO identified the pilots as Jaime Felipe Silva Molina, 37, and Joseph Carol, 55, who both suffered minor injuries.
The Econoline van belongs to Professional Ocean Service Corp., a cleaning company that operates on planes at MIA, and was “torn apart,” according to Homendy.
Related story: Cleaning company ‘heartbroken’ over loss of ‘deeply loved’ employees killed in cargo plane crash
North Carolina-based cargo airline 21 Air was operating Prime Air Flight 798 for Amazon on the Boeing 767-300, manufactured in 1994, according to the Federal Aviation Administration and the NTSB.
The Boeing 767-300 departed with two crew members from the Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport in San Juan, Puerto Rico, according to the FAA and NTSB.
A witness’s video shows there were towering stormy clouds when the plane landed on the MIA runway.
On Monday, Homendy said the plane traveled for 1,300 feet “past the paved surface.”
The plane crossed a fence, struck the Toyota, struck a second fence, and came to a standstill on a field near rows of parked Tesla Robotaxis, according to Homendy.
On Sunday, Miami-Dade Fire Chief Raied “Ray” Jadallah said there was a “complex fire.” Witnesses recorded videos showing dark smoke billowing from the crash site.
MDFR deployed more than 60 units. Firefighters reported using foam to help extinguish the flames in the engine compartment.
Rohan Ellis, a witness, shared a video showing a person climbing out of the cockpit through a window and using the firefighters’ ladder.
Fire rescue personnel reported taking the injured to Jackson Memorial Hospital’s Ryder Trauma Center and the Jackson South Medical Center.
“There is fuel everywhere. That will have to be remediated, but then they are also removing fuel from the aircraft, so we have to allow that to occur,” Homendy said about the crash site on Monday.
Two of Miami International Airport’s four runways remained closed on Monday and Tuesday, according to Greg Chin, a spokesman for the Miami-Dade Aviation Department.
Cordero-Stutz said Northwest 67th Avenue was closed from 25th to 32nd streets.
“Our airport operations bureau and incident management team remain on scene to maintain security, preserve the integrity of the scene, and assist with traffic control,” Cordero-Stutz said.
Cordero-Stutz asked the victims’ relatives to contact MDSO victims’ advocates at 305-471-1900.
Homendy asked witnesses to share photos and videos with the NTSB team via e-mail at witness@ntsb.gov.
Interactive graphic
Copyright 2026 by WPLG Local10.com - All rights reserved.