Google chief scientist Jeff Dean leaving company after 27 years Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech Google's AI reshuffle: Chief scientist Jeff Dean exits and Demis Hassabis steps down as DeepMind CEO Published Wed, Aug 5 2026 12:03 PM EDT Updated 3 Hours Ago MacKenzie Sigalos @KENZIESIGALOS Kif Leswing @kifleswing WATCH LIVE Key Points Google's AI divisions are getting reshuffled, the search giant announced on Wednesday. Jeff Dean, the longtime chief scientist, is leaving after 27 years to start his own company. Demis Hassabis, the CEO of Google DeepMind, is becoming chairman of that unit. In this article GOOGL Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 1:34 01:34 Google DeepMind's Demis Hassabis to move to chairman role from CEO Halftime Report Google's AI divisions are getting reshuffled, the search giant announced on Wednesday, with chief scientist Jeff Dean leaving the company after 27 years. Demis Hassabis, the CEO of Google DeepMind, is moving into a chairman role of that unit and also assuming the title chief scientist of parent company Alphabet, according to a memo from CEO Sundar Pichai that was posted to Google's blog. Alphabet shares fell about 4% after the announcement. Dean, a pioneer in artificial intelligence who's been credited with some of Google's most important technical breakthroughs, is starting his own company along with Google senior fellow Sanjay Ghemawat, the post said. The departure is on friendly terms, and Google will invest in his startup, a representative said. Jeff Dean, head of artificial intelligence at Google LLC, speaks during a Google AI event in San Francisco, California, U.S., on Tuesday, Jan. 28, 2020. David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty Images "After an incredible 27-year run, Jeff Dean is at a moment where he wants to try something new, and we're excited to support him in that," Pichai said in the post. He added that Dean and Ghemawat will be working to "accelerate discoveries" in machine learning, science and engineering. The shake-up, which includes promoting DeepMind technology chief Koray Kavukcuoglu to head of the AI division, comes as Google navigates a rapidly evolving AI industry, with the company trying to compete against OpenAI and Anthropic in developing the most cutting-edge frontier models while also pouring money into infrastructure so that its cloud division can serve customers as well as its own workloads. In the latest quarter , Google turned cash flow negative for the first time on record due to its capital expenditures, while forecasting full-year capex of up to $205 billion. Kavukcuoglu will lead the development of Gemini 4, the company's next major AI model, and will report to Pichai. Google DeepMind's Demis Hassabis speaks at the 2026 Google I/O technology developer conference in Mountain View, California, May 19, 2026. Karl Mondon | Afp | Getty Images Hassabis co-founded DeepMind and joined Google when the search giant purchased the lab in 2014. In recent years, he's been leading nearly all of Alphabet's foundational AI work. "I've decided that now is the right time for me to hand over my day-to-day operational responsibilities at GDM, so that I have the time and space to focus on the big picture and help influence what is to come to the best of my ability," Hassabis said in a note to employees. He added he would work with Pichai on "strategic and global" matters related to AI. In a follow-up post on X, Dean said his new startup will be called Discovery Loop, and that it will be organized as a public benefit corporation focused on AI for science and engineering. From a growth perspective, Google has been doing just fine on AI. The company's cloud division, run by Thomas Kurian, is expanding at a much faster clip than larger rivals Amazon Web Services and Microsoft Azure. Cloud revenue at Google soared 82% in the second quarter to $24.8 billion. AWS reported revenue growth of 37% in the quarter, while Azure sales climbed 43%. Pichai said on the earnings call that cloud expansion was driven by AI infrastructure and AI solutions, noting that was helped by demand for the company's homegrown tensor processing units, or TPUs. The report came a day after Google announced three new Gemini models, including its clearest answer yet to Anthropic 's lead in cybersecurity , though the company still hasn't released Gemini 3.5 Pro, which has been delayed. "Demand for our models is translating to strong token usage across developers and enterprise customers," Pichai said on the earnings call. "And we continue to be supply constrained, a sign of momentum and rapid adoption." WATCH: Hassabis on state of AI race watch now VIDEO 5:33 05:33 Google DeepMind CEO on state of the AI race, push towards AGI and AI impact on jobs Squawk Box Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by