Senate committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress, seeking to bypass floor vote with DOJ referral - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Politics Senate committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress, seeking to bypass floor vote with DOJ referral By Kaia Hubbard Kaia Hubbard Politics Reporter Kaia Hubbard is a politics reporter for CBS News Digital, based in Washington, D.C. Read Full Bio Kaia Hubbard Updated on: August 6, 2026 / 8:15 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Washington — The Senate Homeland Security Committee voted Thursday to hold Dr. Anthony Fauci in contempt of Congress over his refusal to answer questions during testimony before the committee last week, arguing that he inappropriately invoked his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination. "Holding a witness in contempt is a serious thing, and it should be rare," Sen. Rand Paul, the committee chairman, said as the panel gathered Thursday. "But the contempt power exists for precisely this circumstance." The GOP-led committee voted 8 to 5 Thursday on the resolution to hold Fauci in contempt, with all Democrats opposing, and two more opposing by proxy vote. While the next step would typically be a vote on the Senate floor, Paul told CBS News that he intends to send the contempt resolution directly to the Justice Department as a referral. A congressional aide told CBS News later Thursday the referral has been sent to the Justice Department. Sen. Rand Paul arrives at a Senate Homeland Security Committee meeting on Aug. 6, 2026 in Washington, D.C. Anna Moneymaker / Getty Images Fauci's attorney, David Schertler, called the contempt vote "a crude political stunt intended to punish Dr. Fauci for exercising his constitutional rights." "Today's resolution is a continuation of Senator Paul's personal vendetta against Dr. Fauci, who spent 50 years in public health and has saved countless lives," Schertler said in a statement. "It is shameful and wrong that Senator Paul is abusing his power by trying to weaponize the Justice Department against an honorable public servant." Last week, Fauci invoked the Fifth Amendment in response to every question he was asked before the committee, where he appeared for a hearing under subpoena as part of the panel's investigation into the origins of COVID-19. Ahead of the hearing, Paul, a Kentucky Republican who has for years accused Fauci of misleading the public about the source of the outbreak, released more than 1,000 pages of Fauci's journal entries from his time leading the government's response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Fauci cited the release in his opening statement before the committee, claiming Paul has an "obvious obsession with calling for my prosecution." "The only conclusion I can reach is that the sole reason he is calling me before this committee is to get me to say something, anything, that could vindicate his repeated public pledges that I end up, in his words, quote, 'behind bars,'" Fauci said of Paul. While the Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution grants people the right not to incriminate themselves, Paul has argued that Fauci couldn't invoke the Fifth because he is already insulated from prosecution by a Biden-era pardon. Fauci's attorney told CBS News last week that Fauci had "solid legal ground" in asserting his Fifth Amendment privilege. But Paul argues that it's an unsettled legal question. Ahead of the vote Thursday, Paul stressed that the panel wasn't voting on Fauci's opinions or policies, but the question of "whether a witness, who has received the benefit of a sweeping federal pardon, can be ordered by this committee to answer questions — and then defy that order without consequence." "We only have one question: Whether to hold a witness responsible for his contempt toward Congress," Paul said. "The witness had many chances to answer the questions pertinent to our investigation, and he made his decision 111 times." During the committee meeting Thursday morning, Democrats on the committee tried repeatedly to table or postpone the vote, but were blocked by the panel's GOP majority. Sen. Gary Peters of Michigan, the top Democrat on the committee, spoke out against the resolution ahead of the vote, urging committee members to oppose it and arguing that it puts the credibility of the panel at risk for the sake of what he called Paul's "years-long campaign against a single individual." "Criminal contempt is punitive. It does not compel a witness to answer questions or produce the documents we'd all like to see," Peters said. "What it will do is create a damaging precedent that future witnesses will use to resist legitimate congressional oversight and weaken this committee's ability to compel testimony." Republicans fast-track DOJ referral While contempt of Congress resolutions are typically considered by the full Senate after a committee's consideration, Paul has argued that the step isn't required. "We will send it to the Department of Justice tomorrow so there's no delay," Paul told reporters Wednesday. "That will be a committee recommendation." Paul said the full Senate could also vote after the chamber returns from August recess, which he noted would be up to GOP leaders. But he acknowledged that "there might not be" a point to doing so, with the prioritization of a DOJ recommendation. The move to hold Fauci in contempt would all but certainly fall short of the 60-vote threshold needed to advance most legislation in the upper chamber. With 53 Republicans, it would require support from Democrats, who have widely come to Fauci's defense in recent days. The resolution dictates that the president of the Senate, Vice President JD Vance, certify the report detailing Fauci's refusal to answer questions to the U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia, Jeanine Pirro. Whether to charge Fauci would be up to the Justice Department. The Democrat-led Congress in 2021 and 2022 recommended contempt charges for several Trump allies for refusing to comply with subpoenas related to the investigation into the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol. The Justice Department charged Steve Bannon and Peter Navarro , who were both found guilty and served months in prison. Joe Walsh contributed to this report. More from CBS News What Fauci has said about COVID origins, gain-of-function research Behind closed doors, Trump, White House aides hope Rep. Max Miller exits race Rick Brattin wins Republican primary for Missouri seat redrawn to favor GOP Where the Trump administration's lawsuits seeking voter data stand Go deeper with The Free Press Fauci’s Legal Defense Has a Fatal Flaw Pleading the Fifth Won’t Spare Fauci from the Truth In: United States Congress Rand Paul United States Senate COVID-19 Anthony Fauci © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Fauci held in contempt over silence in COVID hearing Republican-led Senate committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt over silence in COVID hearing 02:36 Republican-led Senate committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt over silence in COVID hearing (02:36) What Fauci has said about COVID origins, gain-of-function research Cruz calls for Trump to arm Iranians: "Our objective should be regime collapse" Behind closed doors, Trump, White House aides hope Rep. Max Miller exits race Fauci’s Legal Defense Has a Fatal Flaw Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue