Fires started 'deliberately' on Llanwonno mountain as crews tackle blaze - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Wales Wales Politics Wales Business North West North East Mid South West South East Cymru Local News Fires started 'deliberately' on mountain as crews tackle blaze Figure caption, Wildfire breaks out on Llanwonno mountain By Miriam Barker BBC Wales Published 6 hours ago Fires are believed to have been deliberately started on a mountain where crews have been tackling a blaze since the weekend. The fire at Llanwonno, near Ferndale in the Rhondda Valley, began on Saturday afternoon with emergency services remaining at the scene. It remains a major incident due to the scale of the fire and "challenging conditions" on the mountain, including low cloud, mist and rain. South Wales Fire and Rescue Service (SWFRS) said there were reports of "deliberate fire setting" on the mountain overnight on Monday, while firefighters continued working to contain the blaze. Image source, Martin Phillips Image caption, South Wales Fire and Rescue Service said there were reports of "deliberate fire setting" on the mountain Locals have not been forced to evacuate, but a rest centre has been set up for people who do not wish to stay at home because of poor air quality. A spokesperson for SWFRS said it continued to work with partner agencies to contain and extinguish the wildfire on Llanwonno mountain and prevent further spread, helping to protect nearby properties and communities. "There were reports of deliberate fire setting on the mountain [on Monday night]," they said. "Firefighters worked throughout the night in challenging conditions to tackle the fire and protect properties." Resident Caryl Holmes said most of her family live around the area, with her daughter's house "practically on the mountain". "I've been checking in on everybody making sure the fire wasn't near their homes, but it was near my daughter's," she said. "It was so close and very frightening to be honest. She wasn't allowed to come home 'til it was put out." Image caption, Caryl Holmes says the community had been keeping an eye out for each other as the fire continued to affect the village She said the fire was particularly bad on Monday night when "the smoke was so thick I couldn't breathe" and added that the firefighters had been "amazing". Ian Putland said even with the windows closed he could smell the fire. "I heard about it a couple of days ago, and didn't think it would affect me... but then I came out yesterday and saw ash on the car and it indicated how close the fire was," he said. "I was then alarmed with all the fire people about." He added that he was "frustrated that the fires had been started deliberately". "There's the wildlife killed, people are being put in danger and it takes emergency services away. It is a real waste of resources." Christian Hadfield, area manager at SWFRS, said crews had been at the incident since Saturday but declared it a major incident on Monday in order to protect homes in the area. "We are putting fire breaks in and monitoring the area," he said. He added there were reports of "pockets of deliberate fire setting" which put the crews "under really critical conditions and stretches the service". The fire was "unpredictable and complex work", he said, and firefighters could be there "for many days to come". Image caption, Christian Hadfield said tackling the mountain blaze was "unpredictable and complex work" Hadfield said a specialist firefighting helicopter had been secured to help crews fight the blaze but could not be deployed due to the poor weather conditions. He added that residents affected by smoke were advised to keep windows and doors closed where possible. SWFRS said road closures remained in place and members of the public were asked to avoid the affected area. Anyone with any information is being asked to contact South Wales Police. Related topics Wales Ferndale More top stories Huw Edwards criticised for entering festival poetry competition Published 16 hours ago Police dog sniffs out man hiding behind fake wall on 300-plant cannabis farm Published 1 day ago Son who kept mum's body in freezer for years collected £78k of her benefits Published 1 day ago The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:01 Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack. 00:01:01, play video Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack 0:57 Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites. 00:00:57, play video Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport 1:01 What are the 'luteal uglies'? 00:01:01, play video What are the 'luteal uglies'? 0:59 Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 00:00:59, play video Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 0:40 US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak. 00:00:40, play video US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak 0:35 PC Harper's mother on early release for killers. 00:00:35, play video PC Harper's mother on early release for killers 0:41 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti. 00:00:41, play video 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti 0:54 Why Scotland's exam results come first. 00:00:54, play video Why Scotland's exam results come first 1:06 Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 00:01:06, play video Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 0:39 Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests. 00:00:39, play video Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests 1:09 Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos. 00:01:09, play video Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos 0:25 Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas. 00:00:25, play video Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas 0:45 Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer. 00:00:45, play video Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer 0:55 Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight. 00:00:55, play video Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight 0:27 Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend. 00:00:27, play video Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend 0:59 How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president. 00:00:59, play video How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president 1:57 Are some schools taking discipline too far? 00:01:57, play video Are some schools taking discipline too far? Top stories Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack Published 4 hours ago More than 170 migrants rescued after boat catches fire in Channel Published 2 hours ago Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece Published 2 hours ago More to explore Which area has the best grades? Key takeaways from Scotland's exam results How to avoid the worst of the Italian heat I left my wife and twins behind - why this Nigerian man fled South Africa Breast cancer checks missing most women under 50 who are at risk, says study There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger After three traumatic years at uni, I fear I won't get my dream nursing job Woman has pioneering womb surgery to fix 'miracle' baby with intestines outside its body Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC 'I said maybeeee...' Follow police investigations from the 999 call to conviction The return of the thrilling, award-winning drama about the CIA Tommy and John Fury debate what makes a home Most read 1 Athletes go 'missing' after Commonwealth Games ends 2 Princess Eugenie gives birth to baby girl in Portugal 3 Major search under way for boy, 13, missing at sea 4 Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack 5 Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece 6 Bono, Eddie Vedder and Hozier among mourners at Glen Hansard's funeral 7 Man 'driven insane' by noise admits killing fish 8 Care company fined for running illegal children's homes in legal first 9 Oil prices fall on hopes Strait of Hormuz could reopen 10 Ed Sheeran fined for failing to insure Aston Martin BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.