Two killed, several wounded in minibus blast near Syria’s Damascus | Transport News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up News | Transport Two killed, several wounded in minibus blast near Syria’s Damascus Body parts found at the scene and at least 14 wounded after explosion on minibus in town of Jaramana, Health Ministry says. Listen (3 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google Syrian firefighters and first responders inspect damaged vehicles at the site of an explosion in Jaramana near Damascus, Syria, August, 2026 [Abdulrahman Shaheen/AP] By Al Jazeera Staff and AP Published On 6 Aug 2026 6 Aug 2026 At least two people have been killed and more than a dozen wounded in an explosion on a passenger minibus on the outskirts of the Syrian capital, Damascus. The blast in the town of Jaramana on Thursday injured at least 14 people, according to officials from the Syrian Ministry of Health. Najeeb al-Nassan, the director of the Health Ministry’s Referral, Ambulance and Emergency Directorate, told state news agency SANA that body parts had been found at the scene and were being handled by forensic teams. The blast struck during peak hour on Al-Rawda Street, a crowded main thoroughfare in the centre of Jaramana, Al Jazeera’s Amr Al-Halabi reported from the scene. A security official at the site told the correspondent that the device had been planted inside the vehicle, which was almost completely destroyed, though surrounding shops and a neighbouring bus sustained only limited damage. Residents and rescue workers rushed to the scene. An Associated Press journalist at the scene saw one of the bodies pulled from the wreckage. No group immediately claimed responsibility for the attack. First responders and security personnel work at the site of an explosion in Jaramana, southeast of Damascus, Syria, August 6, 2026 [Abdulrahman Shaheen/AP] Jaramana lies about 4km (2.4 miles) from central Damascus and functions as a transport hub, with Al-Rawda Street linking the town to Airport Road and Southern Ring Road into the heart of the capital. Jaramana, a mixed Druze-Christian town southeast of Damascus, has been a flashpoint since the fall of Bashar al-Assad in December 2024. Clashes between Druze gunmen and government security forces erupted there in early 2025, and deadly sectarian violence in April and May 2025 prompted disarmament deals between Damascus and Druze leaders in Jaramana and Suwayda. Advertisement Al Jazeera Arabic correspondent Amer al-Abbad, reporting from Damascus, said tensions were rising in Jaramana in recent days. Two days ago, people protested in the town, demanding accountability for the perpetrators of violations in Suwayda. Tensions flared again overnight after security forces detained a man accused of glorifying symbols of the former government. The bombing is the first of its kind in the town since the fall of the Assad regime. In recent weeks, Damascus has been hit by a series of blasts, including one at the Palace of Justice, which authorities blamed on the ISIL (ISIS) group. Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network