Man 'driven insane' by pond noise admits killing neighbour's fish - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions London Man 'driven insane' by noise admits killing fish Image source, PA Media Image caption, Gerry Duffy pleaded guilty to damaging his neighbour's pond, water pump and pipes as well as killing the fish Published 4 August 2026, 12:02 BST Updated 9 hours ago A man who admitted using motor oil and detergent to kill his neighbour's fish, after being "driven completely insane" by the noise of a water pump in the pond, has been sentenced. Gerry Duffy, 76, of Hadley Road, Barnet, north London, pleaded guilty on the day of his trial at Willesden Magistrates' Court to three counts of damaging property and one count of unlawfully destroying fish in March. The court heard Duffy climbed into Andreas Ptohides' garden to break the water pump "out of sheer frustration and lack of sleep", having warned his neighbour he would take matters into his own hands. Duffy was given a two-year conditional discharge and ordered to pay £565 in compensation to his neighbour. Duffy, who worked as a builder before his retirement, lives in a studio flat which backs on to the garden owned by his neighbour, the court heard. Shahid Iftakhar, prosecuting, said the "neighbour dispute" between Duffy and Ptohides, potentially caused £565 of damage. He said: "The defendant has previously complained to the complainant about noise coming from his garden and has said words to the effect of, 'if you didn't deal with it, I would' – there was a warning before the incident." The prosecution added that Duffy was captured on CCTV having "climbed into the complainant's garden and damaged the water pipes and pumps". In mitigation, Elliott Stern told the court his client had tried to deal with the dispute without resorting to killing the fish. Mr Stern said: "The man has been driven completely insane by this noise, he's spoken to the complainant several times. "They initially said they would stop the water pump going but then turned around and said that's not good for the fish." An environmental officer came to the house and told Duffy he either had to "move or close his window", the court heard. "Out of sheer frustration and lack of sleep, Mr Duffy, out of character, I would say, lost his mind and committed various damages," said Stern. Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook , external , X , external and Instagram , external . Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk , external Related topics London Barnet From other local news sites ‘I've lost a hell of a lot’ - fire DESTROYS Harold Hill garden and damages home External Romford Recorder Strike action planned for famous Greenwich attraction company next week External News Shopper Can a £12 changing robe rival DryRobe? My verdict after wild swimming External London Evening Standard Incredible images revive London's lost river that flows from Hampstead Heath External Hampstead and Highgate Express Hackney church to mark 200 years with fresh chapter after £192k grant External Hackney Gazette 8,000 homes planned for new south London neighbourhood External London Evening Standard Information about BBC links to other news sites The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:01 Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack. 00:01:01, play video Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack 0:57 Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites. 00:00:57, play video Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport 1:01 What are the 'luteal uglies'? 00:01:01, play video What are the 'luteal uglies'? 0:59 Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 00:00:59, play video Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 0:40 US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak. 00:00:40, play video US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak 0:35 PC Harper's mother on early release for killers. 00:00:35, play video PC Harper's mother on early release for killers 0:41 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti. 00:00:41, play video 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti 0:54 Why Scotland's exam results come first. 00:00:54, play video Why Scotland's exam results come first 1:06 Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 00:01:06, play video Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 0:39 Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests. 00:00:39, play video Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests 1:09 Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos. 00:01:09, play video Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos 0:25 Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas. 00:00:25, play video Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas 0:45 Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer. 00:00:45, play video Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer 0:55 Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight. 00:00:55, play video Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight 0:27 Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend. 00:00:27, play video Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend 0:59 How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president. 00:00:59, play video How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president 1:57 Are some schools taking discipline too far? 00:01:57, play video Are some schools taking discipline too far? Top stories Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack Published 4 hours ago More than 170 migrants rescued after boat catches fire in Channel Published 2 hours ago Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece Published 2 hours ago More to explore Which area has the best grades? Key takeaways from Scotland's exam results How to avoid the worst of the Italian heat I left my wife and twins behind - why this Nigerian man fled South Africa Breast cancer checks missing most women under 50 who are at risk, says study There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger After three traumatic years at uni, I fear I won't get my dream nursing job Woman has pioneering womb surgery to fix 'miracle' baby with intestines outside its body Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC 'I said maybeeee...' Follow police investigations from the 999 call to conviction The return of the thrilling, award-winning drama about the CIA Tommy and John Fury debate what makes a home Most read 1 Princess Eugenie gives birth to baby girl in Portugal 2 Athletes go 'missing' after Commonwealth Games ends 3 Major search under way for boy, 13, missing at sea 4 Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack 5 Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece 6 Bono, Eddie Vedder and Hozier among mourners at Glen Hansard's funeral 7 Man 'driven insane' by noise admits killing fish 8 Care company fined for running illegal children's homes in legal first 9 Ed Sheeran fined for failing to insure Aston Martin 10 Oil prices fall on hopes Strait of Hormuz could reopen BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.