Kids Online Safety Act social media safety bill advances in Senate Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Politics & Policy Kids Online Safety Act social media safety bill advances in Senate Published Wed, Aug 5 2026 11:42 AM EDT Updated 4 Hours Ago Justin Papp @in/justin-papp @justinjpapp1 WATCH LIVE Key Points The Kids Online Safety Act cleared the Senate commerce committee and could head for a full Senate vote. The measure has bipartisan support, and its supporters say it aims to protect kids online and establish stricter standards for social media companies to protect their young users. The Senate action comes more than a month after the House passed a similar bill as part of a broader digital safety package. The two proposals differ, setting up a showdown between lawmakers across the congressional chambers. In this article META SNAP Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Sen. Marsha Blackburn, R-Tenn., backed up by Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn., speaks during a rally organized by Accountable Tech and Design It For Us to hold tech and social media companies accountable for taking steps to protect kids and teens online in Washington, Jan. 31, 2024. Jemal Countess | Getty Images Entertainment | Getty Images The Kids Online Safety Act , known as KOSA, cleared a key hurdle Wednesday by advancing through the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee. The measure, which has strong bipartisan support, is aimed at establishing protections for children's online safety by creating parental controls and studying the impact of social media on the well-being of kids. The legislation was introduced by Sen. Marsha Blackburn , R-Tenn., with support from Sen. Richard Blumenthal , D-Conn. The proposal has 76 cosponsors in the Senate. A different version of the bill advanced out of the House in June as part of a broader package of proposals to protect children and teens online, though its path to becoming law remains murky. "Children and teens face real risk of harm online, and we've lost too many. Congress needs to do more," Sen. Maria Cantwell , D-Wash., the top Democrat on the committee, said Wednesday before the committee vote. "It imposes a duty of care on social media platforms so that these companies have to take reasonable care to make sure they are not creating harm and implementing products that harm kids," Cantwell continued. Read more CNBC politics coverage ChatGPT dominates early AI spending in Congress as lawmakers weigh regulation Trump slams Pirro after she moves to drop Reflecting Pool vandalism case Analysis: Markets heard a dovish Warsh. Fed chairman's words suggest a rate hike The legislation advanced out of committee with a series of other measures aimed at kids' online safety, including one bill that would require artificial intelligence companies to implement privacy safeguards in their online chatbots. Multiple versions of KOSA have bounced around Congress in recent years, and the Senate passed one version of the bill in 2024 . Disagreements between the two chambers have so far prevented the legislation from getting to the president's desk. The Senate version of bill includes a "duty of care" provision, which requires social media platforms such as Meta , Snapchat and TikTok to exercise reasonable care when creating and implementing design features that could harm kids. The House version does not, an omission that has drawn criticism from its Senate sponsors. "Instead of passing a federal standard that will protect America's children from Big Tech's greed, the House of Representatives just passed legislation that is a pale imitation of Big Tech accountability," Blackburn and Blumenthal said in a joint statement after House passage of the package in June. "The House's decision to strip out the Duty of Care will only maintain the status quo in which Big Tech uses our kids as profit centers and leaves parents to pick up the pieces." The legislation faces additional headwinds. Civil liberties groups like the American Civil Liberties Union and the Foundation for Individual Rights and Expression have argued against versions of the bill, claiming they would jeopardize user privacy and contribute to government censorship. The Senate committee also took up the bill one day before members were due to leave for their August recess. Precious few legislative days remain on the House or Senate calendar between now and November's midterm elections, meaning the legislation could fall by the wayside as lawmakers prioritize government funding and other higher priorities. But Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, who chairs the Senate commerce panel, projected confidence. "We've now passed KOSA again unanimously out of this committee. I'm confident we'll pass it on the Senate floor, and then we'll continue the hard work and negotiations with the House to get it over the finish line into the president's desk," Cruz said. "I believe we'll get there, but there's more work to be done." Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by