World's biggest spirits maker Diageo stock rises on turnaround plan Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Markets World's biggest spirits maker pops 4% on $1 billion cost-cutting plan Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 6:58 AM EDT Updated 2 Hours Ago April Roach @/in/april-roach-901033140/ @April__Roach Sawdah Bhaimiya WATCH LIVE Key Points Diageo, whose brands include Johnnie Walker scotch whisky, Captain Morgan rum and Guinness stout, said costs relating to the savings program will amount to $1.2 billion. It reported organic net sales for the year ending June 30 declined 2% to $19.643 billion. Some of its key priorities include keeping its core brands competitive and in line with consumer trends. In this article DEO Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Diageo shares jumped Thursday after the company unveiled a $1 billion three-year savings plan to turn around the struggling business. The world's biggest spirits company, whose brands include Johnnie Walker scotch whisky, Smirnoff vodka, Tanqueray gin, Captain Morgan rum, Don Julio tequila and Guinness stout, said restructuring costs relating to the savings program will amount to $1.2 billion. The savings will be delivered over 2027 and 2028, with additional supply chain benefits continuing in later years. "This new strategy, executing with a new, more agile, competitive and cost-effective operating model, gives us confidence that we can return Diageo to a business consistently creating value for shareholders," said CEO Dave Lewis in a statement. Shares rose nearly 4% in morning trading. Diageo's net sales for the year ending June 30 declined 2% on an organic basis to $19.6 billion from the previous year. Meanwhile, adjusted operating profit was up 2% to $5.7 billion, largely due to cost savings, which were partly offset by tariffs. The FIFA World Cup also helped drive up sales of ready-to-drink beverages and cocktails by 35.1%, largely driven by the launch of Diageo's Casamigos ready-to-serve cocktails during the World Cup and strong sales of Bulleit and Ketel One cocktails. Citi analysts said they expected the results to "drive the stock up," because although Diageo's sales outlook was weaker than expected, its larger-than-expected cost-saving plan more than offsets the weaker revenue. That resulted in higher-than-expected operating profits and small upgrades to Diageo's 2027 earnings per share forecast. Turnaround Lewis recently took the top position at the company, succeeding Debra Crew, who stepped down in July last year. Lewis noted on Thursday that there was "hard work ahead," particularly in North America where organic sales declined 8.4% in the year ending June 30. The company's three key strategic priorities include focusing on keeping its core brands competitive and in line with consumer trends; keeping customers central to its decisions, and having a more agile and efficient operating framework. On Jan. 4, 2022, shares of Diageo hit an all-time high, making it the FTSE 100 ′s third most valuable company, with a stock market value of nearly £90 billion (roughly $121 billion). But since then, the share price has more than halved as its fortunes have waned. The stock is down nearly 13% over the past 12 months. Diageo shares over the past 12 months. — CNBC's Ian King contributed to this report. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by