Rep. Chuck Edwards drops re-election bid after censure recommendation over harassment claims IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Politics U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Politics News Rep. Chuck Edwards drops re-election bid after censure recommendation over harassment claims “After much prayer and reflection, I’ve decided to withdraw from my re-election campaign,” Edwards, R-N.C., said early Wednesday after mounting pressure over his conduct toward two female staffers. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Rep. Chuck Edwards in 2025. Bill Clark / CQ-Roll Call, Inc via Getty Images file Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 5, 2026, 5:36 AM EDT / Updated Aug. 5, 2026, 12:13 PM EDT By Adela Suliman , Scott Wong , Brennan Leach and Katie Taylor WASHINGTON — Rep. Chuck Edwards, R-N.C., said Wednesday he is dropping his bid for re-election, days after the House Ethics Committee recommended he be censured over sexual harassment allegations. “After much prayer and reflection, I’ve decided to withdraw from my re-election campaign. I will complete my current term,” Edwards announced in a post on X . “Serving Western North Carolina has been the honor of my life. Thank you for your trust, prayers, and support.” Edwards, 65, had faced mounting pressure over his conduct with two female staffers in his office. He has repeatedly denied wrongdoing. On Monday, the Ethics panel said it was recommending that the full House censure Edwards after it found that he “engaged in persistent unprofessional and inappropriate conduct towards two young female staffers.” A censure is a formal disapproval by the House. “The Committee found that Representative Edwards violated the House Code of Official Conduct by failing to adhere to the spirit of rules prohibiting sexual harassment of and unwanted advances to House staffers,” the Ethics Committee said in its 25-page report following a monthslong investigation into allegations against him. The bipartisan panel said Edwards denied that any of his actions were intended to be sexual or romantic in nature. He cooperated with the investigation, according to the report. The committee said it found no evidence that Edwards engaged in sexual activity with or propositioned any of his staffers. It also concluded that the allegations “do not implicate quid pro quo sexual harassment” or violate “the ‘letter’ of federal sexual harassment law.” But the panel added that “his pattern of behavior would lead a reasonable observer to interpret it as such, including providing the young women with lavish and recurrent gifts, making comments regarding their appearance and dress, inviting them to intimate dinners and vacations, sending notes regarding his effusive affection, and inviting them to other activities as a way to spend time together.” Edwards had been endorsed by President Donald Trump last year and had been set to face Democrat Jamie Ager, a farmer, in the November election. Democrats believed the seat could flip, given the embarrassing Ethics report and the fact that Ager had significantly outraised Edwards. Before the release of the report, the Cook Political Report rated the race as “Lean Republican.” State election law allows GOP officials from the counties in North Carolina’s 11th Congressional District to meet and select a new nominee, which the state Republican Party announced they would do next week. The party did not provide timing details. Edwards has not been in Congress long. A former state lawmaker, he ousted Rep. Madison Cawthorn in the GOP primary in 2022 but kept a low profile on Capitol Hill, unlike his predecessor , before the ethics probe. Before that, the seat in far western North Carolina was held by Republican Mark Meadows, the former Freedom Caucus chairman who went on to become White House chief of staff during Trump’s first term. Edwards previously called the allegations “baseless” and said in a statement to NBC News in May that he welcomed an investigation. His counsel wrote a 15-page rebuttal to the committee’s findings, calling them “unfounded.” Share Add NBC News to Google Adela Suliman Adela Suliman is a breaking-news editor and reporter for NBC News in London. Scott Wong Scott Wong is a senior congressional reporter for NBC News. Brennan Leach Brennan Leach is an associate producer for NBC News covering the Senate. Katie Taylor Katie Taylor is a Desk Assistant based in Washington, DC. Megan Brand contributed . About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC