JPMorgan profit surges 52% on robust consumer business skip to main content News Sport Entertainment Business Lifestyle Culture Gaeilge Player Tv Radio Weather Login News Sport Entertainment Business Lifestyle Culture Player TV Radio Gaeilge Weather Archives Brainstorm History Discover Discover RTÉ Games RTÉ Archives RTÉ Brainstorm History Gaeilge RTÉ Learn Food RTÉ Food RTÉ Recipes Watch Watch RTÉ Player TV RTÉ One RTÉ2 RTÉ News RTÉjr Listen Listen Radio Podcasts RTÉ Radio 1 RTÉ 2FM RTÉ lyric fm RTÉ Raidió na Gaeltachta Services Services Orchestra RTÉ Weather Century Ireland Kids Kids RTÉ Kids RTÉ Learn Help Help Contact Feedback Accessibility Complaints Terms & Conditions Individual Rights Guide Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Freedom of Information Helplines Information Information About RTÉ TV Licence Vacancies Latest Annual Report Advertise with RTÉ 2rn Saorview Newsletters RTÉ Supporting the Arts Policies and Reports See all results news Business Agribusiness Focus on Inflation Business of Climate Work Brexit Watch and Listen Your Money Technology Markets Economy Analysis JPMorgan's Q1 profit surges 52% on robust consumer business Updated / Friday, 14 Apr 2023 13:36 JPMorgan Chase and Co's profit increased 52% to $12.62 billion, or $4.10 per share, in the three months ended March 31 JPMorgan Chase & Co's first-quarter profit beat Wall Street estimates today as higher interest income offset weakness in dealmaking, and the biggest US lender remained resilient through the banking crisis in March. The lender's shares jumped 6% as its performance underscored how big banks - with their diversified businesses and trillions of dollars in assets - withstood the crisis better than regional banks. Chief executive Jamie Dimon said the US consumer and the economy remain robust but cautioned that the banking crisis could turn lenders more conservative and impact consumer spending. "The US economy continues to be on generally healthy footings - consumers are still spending and have strong balance sheets, and businesses are in good shape," Dimon said. "However, the storm clouds that we have been monitoring for the past year remain on the horizon, and the banking industry turmoil adds to these risks," he added. Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank SBNY.O failed last month after depositors yanked their funds, marking the second and third largest collapses in US history. JPMorgan set aside loan loss provisions of $2.3 billion, up 56% from last year. It reported a 52% increase in profit to $12.62 billion, or $4.10 per share, in the three months ended March 31. Excluding one-time costs, the bank earned $4.32 per share, ahead of analysts' average expectation of $3.41 per share, according to Refinitiv IBES data. "JPM is one of those household names in a sector that we were the most concerned about reporting better than expected earnings and that is certainly putting a bid in the stock and a bid in the market," said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at B Riley Wealth in Boston. Jamie Dimon, the bank's chief executive Revenue at the lender's consumer and community banking unit jumped 80% to $5.2 billion on the back of higher interest rates. The Federal Reserve raised rates by a quarter of a percentage point last month. Net interest income, a measure of how much it earns from lending, surged 49% to $20.8 billion. The lender increased its forecast for NII to $81 billion this year, excluding profits from markets, from an earlier $74 billion. However, its Wall Street investment banking business remained a sore point. Revenue at the unit fell 24%, weighed down by a tepid market for mergers, acquisitions and stock sales. Equity trading revenue slid 12%. Fixed income trading revenue was flat. The bank's overall revenue jumped 25% jump to $38.3 billion. More stories on News Business Credit Suisse Silicon Valley Bank JPMorgan Chase & Co Signature Bank Source: Reuters News Sport Entertainment Business Lifestyle Culture Player TV Radio Gaeilge Weather Archives Brainstorm History Discover Discover RTÉ Games RTÉ Archives RTÉ Brainstorm History Gaeilge RTÉ Learn Food RTÉ Food RTÉ Recipes Watch Watch RTÉ Player TV RTÉ One RTÉ2 RTÉ News RTÉjr Listen Listen Radio Podcasts RTÉ Radio 1 RTÉ 2FM RTÉ lyric fm RTÉ Raidió na Gaeltachta Services Services Orchestra RTÉ Weather Century Ireland Kids Kids RTÉ Kids RTÉ Learn Help Help Contact Feedback Accessibility Complaints Terms & Conditions Individual Rights Guide Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Freedom of Information Helplines Information Information About RTÉ TV Licence Vacancies Latest Annual Report Advertise with RTÉ 2rn Saorview Newsletters RTÉ Supporting the Arts Policies and Reports Follow RTÉ © RTÉ 2026. RTÉ.ie is the website of Raidió Teilifís Éireann, Ireland's National Public Service Media. RTÉ is not responsible for the content of external internet sites. Images Courtesy of Getty Images. -