Newspaper columnist and broadcaster Rod Liddle dies aged 66 - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Entertainment & Arts Newspaper columnist and broadcaster Rod Liddle dies aged 66 Image source, Corbis via Getty Images By Emma Saunders Culture reporter Published 3 August 2026 Updated 4 August 2026 Newspaper columnist and broadcaster Rod Liddle has died aged 66 after a short illness, his family has announced. Liddle's children paid tribute to their father, who they described as their guide "on how to live an extraordinary life", while CEO of News UK, Rebekah Brooks, called him "an inimitable journalistic force." Brooks added that "he challenged conventional thinking and left an indelible mark on British journalism." Liddle, a columnist for the Sun and the Sunday Times, died at The James Cook University Hospital in Middlesbrough on Sunday evening. A former editor of BBC Radio 4's flagship Today programme, he also had a weekly column in the Spectator, as well as a show on Times Radio. His children, Wilder, Tyler and Emmy, said: "We're all very saddened and shocked at the sudden passing of our wonderful father. "He raised us much as you might imagine, to be inquisitive, brave and always humorous. "Even in hospital in the last few weeks, he consistently held the room and never let the awful situation show. "He has left a legacy that we are all incredibly proud of, he will always be our guide on how to live an extraordinary life." 'One of a kind' Former prime minister Boris Johnson, who also edited the Spectator, said he was "heartsick" at the news , external of Liddle's death, remembering him as "an outrageously funny and gifted writer with a beautiful conversational style". Paying tribute on Radio 4's PM programme, former Today presenter John Humphrys described Liddle as "inspirational" and "simply unique". "He was an extraordinarily journalist, a remarkable man, an utterly brilliant and bonkers editor – you never knew what to expect from Rod," Humphrys said. "He was one of a kind, and if you thought you knew what to expect from him on a particular story or event, you would almost certainly be wrong, because he would almost certainly have different ideas, and they would almost always be far better than yours." In her statement, Brooks said: "Everyone at News UK is deeply shocked and saddened to learn of the sudden death of Rod Liddle. "Rod was an inimitable journalistic force – brilliant, provocative and immensely talented – whose sharp wit and uncompromising voice graced our pages and airwaves for decades. "Rod will be greatly missed by all his friends and colleagues at News, as well as by his many readers, listeners and viewers. "Our thoughts and sincerest condolences are with his family and loved ones." 'No topic off-limits' Ben Taylor, editor of The Sunday Times, said: "Rod Liddle had a wonderful way with words and used his unique talent to speak for the readers, highlighting the cant and absurdity that bedevils modern life. He was also supremely entertaining and for years his column was the first that many turned to every Sunday. We will miss him desperately." Victoria Newton, editor-in-chief of The Sun, said: "Rod was a brilliant, fearless columnist who was much loved by all at The Sun. "A champion of press freedom, no topic was off-limits, and his writing – as funny as it was excoriating – was simply exceptional. "A terrific observer of the frailties of our political class, he will be remembered for his razor sharp wit and for his huge intellect. "But on The Sun floor he will also be remembered for his warmth and humour and for the belly laughs we had at his wildly entertaining lunches and dinners where he would hold court. "He will be hugely missed by The Sun's staff and by his many, many loyal readers." Tim Levell, programme director of Times Radio, said: "Rod burst out of the speakers when he started his show on Times Radio. Listeners already knew about his wit and his proudly anti-conventional views. "But his wide learning, dedication and comedic timing were a delight and surprise to many. His show brightened Saturday mornings enormously and he will be greatly missed." A BBC spokesperson said: "We're sorry to hear of the death of former BBC journalist, producer and Today editor, Rod Liddle. He led the flagship Radio 4 programme during an extraordinary time in British politics and through a series of award-winning investigations. "Rod has left a substantial mark on the world of journalism. Our thoughts are with his family, friends, and colleagues." Controversial opinions Liddle was no stranger to controversy and often split opinion. He was the first journalist to have an online blog censured by the Press Complaints Commission (PCC), the forerunner to IPSO. In 2010 a complaint was upheld by the PCC after he claimed on the Spectator website that the "overwhelming majority" of violent crime in London was carried out by young Afro-Caribbean men. Critics accused Liddle of having misogynist and racist views over some of the contents of other Spectator columns. He said he was provoking debate or being satirical about many of his subjects. The magazine was prosecuted in 2012 for breaching a court order over an article written by Liddle during the trial of Stephen Lawrence's killers. The article claimed the two defendants would not get a fair trial. The magazine paid a fine of £3,000 plus £2,000 in compensation after pleading guilty to breaching a court order during the case. In 2019, Liddle used his column to suggest planning elections for a time when Muslims cannot vote. He used the same column to apparently mock the then Labour MP Rosie Duffield - now an independent MP - after she spoke about a previous abusive relationship she had while discussing domestic abuse legislation. The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:34 Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents. 00:00:34, play video Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents 1:05 What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident. 00:01:05, play video What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident 0:29 How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 00:00:29, play video How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 1:27 Are older and younger generations in conflict? 00:01:27, play video Are older and younger generations in conflict? 1:18 Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 00:01:18, play video Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 0:48 Model's photos used to catfish women. 00:00:48, play video Model's photos used to catfish women 1:29 The inventor who refused to take no for an answer. 00:01:29, play video The inventor who refused to take no for an answer 1:07 How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 00:01:07, play video How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 1:01 E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths. 00:01:01, play video E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths 1:07 NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England. 00:01:07, play video NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England 0:52 Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion. 00:00:52, play video Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion 0:59 Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation. 00:00:59, play video Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation 0:35 Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend. 00:00:35, play video Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend 1:25 Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings. 00:01:25, play video Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings 0:55 Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 00:00:55, play video Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 0:48 Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances. 00:00:48, play video Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances 1:16 GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview. 00:01:16, play video GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview 1:07 What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 00:01:07, play video What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 0:58 '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 00:00:58, play video '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 0:29 Where does salmonella get its name? 00:00:29, play video Where does salmonella get its name? Top stories Live . Rescue efforts enter fifth day on Nepal-Tibet border with more than 2,400 missing after flash flood 1277 viewing 1.3k viewing At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot Published 3 hours ago Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor Published 7 hours ago More to explore Dolly Parton's dad couldn't read - it inspired her to send books to millions of children Sweetcorn ice creams and pastries: The latest 'swavoury' trend taking over your feed How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works We helped create UK emergency alert system - but question how government is using it Hypermobility - the little-known 'bendy disease' that causes pain and fatigue Strong winds and thunderstorms kick off the bank holiday weekend 'I thought diet clubs weren't for men' Embroidery on display as town celebrates conqueror Royal Watch: Get the latest royal stories and analysis with Sean Coughlan’s weekly newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Low-key noughties sitcom starring Robert Webb and Paula Wilcox Keith Richards recalls how he wrote the iconic 'Satisfaction' An unlikely gang set out to catch a killer who shattered rural peace Did Emily ruin Paris? Most read 1 Rescue to continue overnight for 'in distress' vessel carrying five in the Channel 2 Sarah Ferguson expected back in the UK 'shortly', source says 3 Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor 4 I've been to Gamescom six times - here's what excited me this year 5 'Healey eyes banks and oil tax' and 'X Factor comeback' 6 Norway's new king remembers 'my dear father' in first speech 7 How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works 8 They fell in love - then had to check they weren't brother and sister 9 Man dies after train hits van on crossing 10 At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.