Celebrity culture is one thing. For TMZ, Congress is the new 'reality show' : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Celebrity culture is one thing. For TMZ, Congress is the new 'reality show' TMZ is trading Hollywood gossip for Capitol Hill scoops with a new D.C. bureau, launched in April. The online tabloid's two-man crew has brought an unconventional reporting style to the Congress beat. Politics Celebrity culture is one thing. For TMZ, Congress is the new 'reality show' August 6, 2026 5:00 AM ET Claudia Grisales TMZ trades Hollywood gossip for Capitol Hill scoops with new D.C. bureau Listen · 3:51 3-Minute Listen Playlist Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5922731/nx-s1-9874217" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Transcript TMZ made a name for itself with scoops on Hollywood celebrities but is now turning its lens on members of Congress. Gabriel Bouys/AFP via Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Gabriel Bouys/AFP via Getty Images During a recent visit to Reagan Washington National Airport, TMZ's Charlie Cotton was chatting up with Georgia Democratic Sen. Jon Ossoff for an interview that would later post to the online tabloid's site. "You don't look like Pee-wee Herman," Cotton told Ossoff, who's locked in a high-profile reelection campaign against Republican challenger Rep. Mike Collins. President Trump recently called Ossoff "Pinky Herman," an apparent reference to the iconic 1980s character Pee-wee Herman . But on this day, Cotton wanted to talk more about their shared roots. Cotton is from Australia, and Ossoff's mother is a native Australian too. Sponsor Message "You know, there is a laid-back culture, I think, in Australia," Ossoff said. "We get a little wound up over here sometimes." That can be particularly true on Capitol Hill, where TMZ is bringing a new approach to reporting on Congress since launching a bureau in the nation's capital this year. Now, the site that carved out a reputation for celebrity scoops is putting a lens on Washington, mixing levity, gossip and also more legitimate exclusives in hopes of drawing new readers who might not be politically inclined. Cotton, a longtime producer for TMZ, and colleague Jacob Wasserman make up the new D.C. bureau. Wasserman recently covered the criminal trial for the scandal-plagued hip-hop mogul Sean Combs . "What me and Charlie are trying to do is we need to take a step back," Wasserman said in an interview. "And while it's great to get into the importance of social and political issues, we want to understand who these people are." The site started gaining attention in Washington this year when TMZ founder Harvey Levin asked the public to share photos of vacationing members of Congress during a partial government shutdown . The photos went viral, including one of late GOP Sen. Lindsey Graham holding a bubble wand at Disney World. Graham said he was in Florida for a meeting with President Trump and stopped at the park afterward to meet with friends. Sponsor Message "It just went so viral that Harvey just came to us and said, 'Now is the time. It's now or never. TMZ D.C. needs to start now,'" Cotton recalls. They launched in April. "This place is kind of like a reality show" Wasserman argues that TMZ could be a political gateway for some. "You might get TMZ even if you're someone who is politically disengaged," Wasserman said. "So we're speaking to those people who have never heard of Ted Cruz or Elizabeth Warren and might be coming across them for the first time, and maybe that gets them politically curious." Cotton said the way to get there is by asking interesting, relatable and funny questions while also holding members accountable on tough issues. "This place is kind of like a reality show," Cotton said. "So we just want to capture some of the natural entertainment." In one recent segment, the duo argued that stuffy straight guys were ruining the D.C. dating scene. Cotton said they got an enormous response from Hill staffers — and even some lawmakers too. "Of all the clips we've shot, and we've shot, like, some important people, we've never received a response like we did for that," he said. Not everyone is keen to talk. That includes Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., who declined to answer a question from Wasserman last month about a mysterious sound heard on the Senate floor as Schumer was delivering remarks. "Senator, Jacob with TMZ. Did you fart yesterday on the Senate floor?" he asked as Schumer was climbing into a vehicle set to leave the Capitol. Ultimately, TMZ conceded the sound might have been something else. But the TMZ duo argues that Schumer could have played along with the lowbrow humor. "What a great opportunity it is to maybe play it off and show your personality," Wasserman said. Sponsor Message "He would be, like, celebrated," Cotton added. They had more luck on the other side of the Capitol with Rep. Lauren Boebert, R-Colo., who opened up on everything from Botox to behind-the-scenes talks on the National Defense Authorization Act. "It's a big issue on the left and the right, and many of my constituents have reached out," she said about the debate over a provision in the military spending bill. But "now I am forced to talk to TMZ. … I am talking out of the side of my mouth … because my Botox hasn't caught up." Traditional news vs. the TMZ way Robert Thompson, a Syracuse University professor of television and pop culture, said the duo is especially notable at a moment when trust in the media is on the decline. "It is extraordinary, the disproportionate amount of attention these two guys are getting," he said. While TMZ has operated under different rules from other more traditional news organizations — paying for exclusive photos, for example — Thompson said its new D.C. operation should be taken seriously. It's a point Wasserman emphasizes. He said they're after the big scoops — TMZ's bread and butter. "We want to be players, and we want to compete and break news that is going to move the needle," he said. TMZ Congress Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Here & Now Anytime Border wall fuels water fight : Here & Now Anytime Trump's Terms Trump's third check-up at Walter Reed raises more questions about his health : Trump's Terms Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after Politics Senate committee set to vote on whether to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress NPR Music The best albums of 2026 (so far) : NPR Music Health Dr. Erica Schwartz confirmed as CDC director, filling a leadership vacuum More Stories From NPR Up First Newsletter El-Sayed wins Michigan's primary. And, Fauci faces contempt of Congress vote Politics Senate Homeland Security committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress Consider This from NPR What do Tuesday’s primaries signal about where the Democratic Party is headed? Law Judge reluctantly dismisses case against Oath Keepers militia group over Jan. 6 riot Politics Progressive Abdul El-Sayed wins Michigan's Democratic primary for Senate Elections Progressives see biggest win yet in Michigan, while Trump flexes power over GOP Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after Education Trump administration moves to deregulate Head Start, opening door for sweeping change TV Reviews 'Furious' is an unforgettable thriller, not just a 'Black Widow' remake The Ripple Effect The keepers of the Grateful Dead's history Health Dr. Erica Schwartz confirmed as CDC director, filling a leadership vacuum Health Black lung rates in Appalachia are high as the 1970s, with thousands of miners sick NPR Editors' Picks Global Health How Cambodia became the first Asian country to hit an elusive HIV target Sports Gianni Infantino gets internal support at crisis meeting to remain as FIFA president Europe Drone with explosives found at German airport, official sees 'new quality' of threat Asia Ousted Bangladeshi leader vows to return from exile despite facing a death sentence Immigration Small Texas law firm set to receive $150M to represent unaccompanied migrant children Asia Under China's new 'unity' law, Tibetans fight to preserve language and culture Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices