Senate passes sanctions bill on Russia and Iran named for late Sen. Lindsey Graham IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Meet the Press U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Meet the Press U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline War in Ukraine Senate passes sanctions bill on Russia and Iran named for late Sen. Lindsey Graham The legislation is part of a deal reached by senators aimed at helping Ukraine by cutting off funds for “Putin’s war machine.” Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 A man stands on a destroyed car following a Russian air attack on the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, in July. Roman Pilipey / AFP via Getty Images file Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 7, 2026, 1:24 PM EDT / Updated Aug. 7, 2026, 1:25 PM EDT By Sahil Kapur and Frank Thorp V WASHINGTON — The Senate voted overwhelmingly to pass legislation to impose sanctions against Russia and Iran after months of fits and starts, with the death of Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham providing the final push. The 61-page legislation , renamed the Lindsey O. Graham Sanctioning Russia and Iran Act of 2026, in honor of the bill’s biggest proponent, is designed to punish major buyers of Russian oil and gas. It also features additional sanctions on Russian leaders, family members and oligarchs. Smoke rises over the city following a Russian air attack on Kyiv in July. Roman Pilipey / AFP via Getty Images file And it allows for targeted tariffs on products from countries that buy most Russian oil and gas, limiting them to the five biggest importers. The vote was 86-11. Senate Majority Leader John Thune, R-S.D., said the bill would help protect Ukraine against Russian aggression. “Ukraine is now the largest conflict, literally, since World War II in Europe,” Thune said in a recent floor speech. “And the Ukrainian people have been resilient, worked really, really hard to try and bring this war to an end. But as long as Putin has Russian oil and gas money, he’s able to continue this war. And what this sanctions bill would do would basically cut that off.” Rescuers work at a nine-story residential building in Kyiv's Podilskyi district after a Russian missile strike in July. Kostiantyn Liberov / Libkos via Getty Images file After a last-minute demand from President Donald Trump, it also extends sanction authority designed to limit funding toward Iran’s weapons and energy sectors. The bill has been criticized by a group of Democrats and Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., with the Democrats arguing that it would give Trump too much tariff authority. It now goes to the Republican-controlled House, where it faces an uncertain future. The Senate deal was announced Tuesday morning by Sen. Darline Graham, R-S.C., the late senator’s sister and appointed successor, as well as Sens. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn.; Katie Britt, R-Ala.; Jeanne Shaheen, D-N.H.; Roger Wicker, R-Miss.; and Jim Risch, R-Idaho. A couple walks past a recruiting placard in Kyiv in June. Sergei Supinsky / AFP via Getty Images file The senators struck the deal July 28, less than two weeks after Graham’s unexpected death, saying there was “no greater way to honor” the South Carolinian’s legacy. “We are proud to announce an agreement on legislation to stop purchasers of Russian oil and gas from fueling Putin’s war machine and to continue restricting the Iranian regime’s ability to support terrorism and build its nuclear program,” the senators said in a joint statement. Senate passage was all but guaranteed after the chamber voted 86-12 to advance the bill procedurally last month, shortly after reaching the deal. Share Add NBC News to Google Sahil Kapur Sahil Kapur is a senior national political reporter for NBC News. Frank Thorp V Frank Thorp V is a coordinating producer and off-air reporter covering Congress for NBC News, managing coverage of the Senate. About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC