Vinicius Jr extends Real Madrid deal to 2032, ending transfer speculation | Football News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up Sport | Football Vinicius Jr extends Real Madrid deal to 2032, ending transfer speculation The 26-year-old Brazil international had been linked with a move to English champions Arsenal. Listen (2 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google Vinicius Junior's previous contract was ⁠due to expire ​in ⁠June 2027 [File: AFP] By Reuters Published On 6 Aug 2026 6 Aug 2026 Real Madrid have secured ⁠the ⁠future of Brazilian winger Vinicius Jr, extending his contract until ⁠June 2032, the Spanish giants announced, ⁠bringing an end to months of speculation over his future. The 26-year-old Brazil international has been ‌a central figure in Real’s attack in recent seasons and had been linked with a move to English champions Arsenal. Recommended Stories list of 4 items list 1 of 4 Real Madrid sign Ivory Coast’s Yan Diomande from RB Leipzig list 2 of 4 UEFA says FIFA boycott remains despite Infantino World Cup selloff U-turn list 3 of 4 Mohamed Salah signs two-year deal with Trabzonspor list 4 of 4 Uganda football star Owori killed, weeks after death of rugby’s Gongodyo end of list His previous contract was ⁠due to expire in ⁠June 2027. “Real Madrid and Vinicius Jr have agreed to extend our player’s ⁠contract, which now keeps him with the ⁠club through June ⁠30, 2032,” Real said in a statement on Thursday. “Vinicius has become one of the most ‌important players during one of the most successful periods in ‌our history.” Since joining from Brazilian club Flamengo in 2018, Vinicius has scored 128 goals and registered 100 assists for Real. Spanish and British media had reported prolonged contract negotiations between the player and the club, while Arsenal were said to be monitoring the situation and exploring a potential move. The extension removes the prospect of Real losing one of their most valuable players ⁠on a free transfer. Vinicius also had a demanding summer with ⁠Brazil at the World Cup, where they were eliminated by Norway in the last 16. The forward has built an impressive trophy collection during his time in Madrid, winning two Champions League titles and three ⁠La Liga crowns among numerous other honours. He is set to work under Jose Mourinho for the first time after the Portuguese ⁠coach returned for a second spell in charge ⁠at Real in June. Advertisement The appointment followed a disappointing campaign for the record 15-time European champions, who finished runners-up to archrivals Barcelona in La Liga, exited the Champions League in the quarterfinals and ended the season ‌without a major trophy. Tying down Vinicius represents another significant step in an active transfer window for Real. The club have also strengthened their squad with the arrivals of winger Yan ‌Diomande , ‌midfielder Bernardo Silva, centre-back Ibrahima Konate, left-back Marc Cucurella and wing-back Denzel Dumfries ahead of the new season. Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network