Private companies added just 44,000 workers in July, below expectations, ADP reports Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Economy Private companies added just 44,000 workers in July, below expectations, ADP reports Published Wed, Aug 5 2026 8:15 AM EDT Updated Wed, Aug 5 2026 11:08 AM EDT Jeff Cox @jeff.cox.7528 @JeffCoxCNBCcom WATCH LIVE Key Points Private companies added 44,000 jobs in July, a slowdown from the 95,000 the prior month and below market expectations, ADP reported Wednesday. Virtually all of the job gains came from healthcare-related sectors, with goods-producing industries seeing a net loss. Pay growth for those changing jobs hit its highest level in nearly a year. watch now VIDEO 5:13 05:13 Private companies added just 44,000 workers in July, below expectations, ADP reports Squawk Box Hiring at private companies slowed considerably in July, with most of the job growth coming from healthcare, payrolls processing firm ADP reported Wednesday. Nonfarm job growth excluding government totaled a seasonally adjusted 44,000 for the month, below the downwardly revised 95,000 in June and less than the Dow Jones consensus forecast for 75,000. On net, all of the gains came from the services sector, which added 47,000 while goods-producing companies saw a decline of 3,000. Of those jobs, the education and health services sector produced 36,000, continuing a long-standing trend for the industry in leading employment growth. Financial activities added 10,000, professional and business services contributed 9,000, and the other services category saw a gain of 6,000. Trade, transportation and utilities lost 8,000 while natural resources and mining was off 6,000. Manufacturing saw growth of just 2,000 while construction added 1,000. Distribution among company size was relatively balanced, with firms employing fewer than 50 people leading with 23,000 new jobs. Pay gains held steady at 4.4% annually for those staying in their jobs. However, job switchers saw a 7% increase, the largest since August 2025. "Job-changers are highly sensitive to real-time economic conditions, and their rapid pay growth implies supply constraints in parts of the labor market," ADP's chief economist, Nela Richardson, said. "Typical hiring patterns, meanwhile, are changing as employers react to shifting macroeconomic conditions." The monthly employment gain was the smallest since January during a year in which the labor market has steadied after showing little progress in 2025. Most Federal Reserve officials have expressed confidence in the jobs picture and are putting inflation concerns at the forefront. The Fed has kept its benchmark interest rate steady, though markets are betting on a hike before the end of the year if the inflation data does not improve. The ADP report comes two days before the Bureau of Labor Statistics releases its official nonfarm payrolls report for July. Economists surveyed by Dow Jones expect that count to show 83,000 hires, up from June's 57,000, and the unemployment rate holding at 4.2%. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by