--> JPMorgan Chase Posts Record Revenue Skip to content Investopedia Trade Search Please fill out this field. Log In My Account Log Out Newsletters Search Please fill out this field. News News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Investing Stocks Cryptocurrency Bonds ETFs Options and Derivatives Commodities Trading Automated Investing Brokers Fundamental Analysis View All Simulator Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Banking Banking Savings Accounts Certificates of Deposit (CDs) Money Market Accounts Checking Accounts View All Personal Finance Personal Finance American Dream Retirement Student Loans Personal Loans Budgeting and Saving Mortgages Credit and Debt Taxes Insurance Financial Literacy View All Economy Economy Government and Policy Monetary Policy Fiscal Policy Economics View All Reviews Reviews Best Online Brokers Best Crypto Exchanges Best Savings Rates Best CD Rates Best Life Insurance Best Mortgage Rates Best Robo-Advisors Best Personal Loans Best Debt Relief Companies View All Log In My Account My Account Log Out Newsletters Follow Us News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Stocks Cryptocurrency Bonds ETFs Options and Derivatives Commodities Trading Automated Investing Brokers Fundamental Analysis View All Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Banking Savings Accounts Certificates of Deposit (CDs) Money Market Accounts Checking Accounts View All Personal Finance American Dream Retirement Student Loans Personal Loans Budgeting and Saving Mortgages Credit and Debt Taxes Insurance Financial Literacy View All Economy Government and Policy Monetary Policy Fiscal Policy Economics View All Reviews Best Online Brokers Best Crypto Exchanges Best Savings Rates Best CD Rates Best Life Insurance Best Mortgage Rates Best Robo-Advisors Best Personal Loans Best Debt Relief Companies View All Top Stories Stocks Slide to Kick Off September Surge in Bond Yields Isn't a Good Sign for Stocks Treasury Bonds Yielding 5% May be Tempting—Experts Are Wary Tesla Stock Rally Faces Test This Week JPMorgan Chase Posts Record Revenue By Terry Lane is a writer for Investopedia with 25 years of experience in journalism and communications. He covers personal finance, Congress, government regulations, and economics. " tabindex="0" data-inline-tooltip="true"> Terry Lane Full Bio Terry Lane is a writer for Investopedia with 25 years of experience in journalism and communications. He covers personal finance, Congress, government regulations, and economics. Learn about our editorial policies Published April 14, 2023 02:25 PM EDT Getty Images Close Key Takeaways JPMorgan Chase ( JPM ) posted record revenue in the first quarter of 2023, sending its shares soaring on Friday. The largest bank in the U.S. by assets reported a net income of $12.62 billion in the first quarter, compared with $8.28 billion a year ago. Shares of JPMorgan gained more than 7% on the news in early trading on Friday. Get personalized, AI-powered answers built on 27+ years of trusted expertise. Ask anything to get started... ASK Other banks reporting over the next few weeks could find it tough to match the pace set by JPMorgan Chase ( JPM ), which reported record revenue in the first quarter of 2023 on Friday, sending shares soaring. JPMorgan blew by analyst estimates, propelled by income from higher interest rates. The largest bank in the U.S. by assets reported a net income of $12.62 billion in the first quarter, compared with $8.28 billion a year ago. Earnings per share were up to $4.10, a jump of 56% from a year ago. Earnings came in well ahead of analyst projections, which had the bank posting earnings per share of $3.43. JPMorgan’s results were helped by the Federal Reserve’s campaign of interest rates hikes to curb inflation, which helped the bank boost its net interest income by 49%. Shares of JPMorgan jumped more than 7% on the news in early trading on Friday. YCharts Do you have a news tip for Investopedia reporters? Please email us at [email protected] Article Sources Investopedia requires writers to use primary sources to support their work. These include white papers, government data, original reporting, and interviews with industry experts. We also reference original research from other reputable publishers where appropriate. You can learn more about the standards we follow in producing accurate, unbiased content in our editorial policy. JPMorgan Chase & Co. " JPMorgan Chase Reports First-Quarter 2023 Net Income of $12.6 Billion ." Take the Next Step to Invest Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. Get personalized, AI-powered answers built on 27+ years of trusted expertise. ASK Read more News Company News Partner Links Take the Next Step to Invest Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. Related Articles Here’s How Much Palo Alto Networks Stock Is Expected to Move After Earnings Here’s How Much Traders Expect Dell Stock to Move After Earnings Here’s How Much Traders Expect Walmart Stock to Move After Earnings Marvell Leads AI Stocks Lower After Earnings That Narrowly Topped Estimates Nvidia Earnings Live, Aug. 26, 2026: Q2 Profits, Revenue Beat Street Estimates; Stock Rises Nvidia Stock Is Rising. Investors Still Buy the Growth Story. Earnings Season Is Almost Done. A Big Report Is Coming Up J.M. Smucker Lifts Fiscal 2027 Outlook After Q1 Results ‘Exceeded Our Expectations’ Here’s How Much CrowdStrike Stock Is Expected to Move After Earnings Big Software Names Bounced Back in August. Can They Sustain Their Recent Rally? Dollar General Stock Jumps on Strong Results, Raised Outlook Here’s How Much Analog Devices Stock Is Expected to Move After Earnings Memory Shares Start Week Strong as Sandisk Stock Climbs Baidu Stock Falls on Weak Sales, Profits Home Depot and Lowe’s Report Earnings Soon. Here’s How Much Traders Expect the Stocks to Move Tesla Stock Has Been on a Hot Streak Ahead of Big Event This Week Investopedia Newsletter Sign Up Follow Us News Investing Simulator Banking Personal Finance Economy Reviews Dictionary About Us Editorial Process Careers Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Advertise # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Investopedia is part of the People Inc. publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up