UN: Iran using drones to enforce hijab law Accessibility links Skip to main content Skip to main Navigation Skip to Search Next Close Previous Next This image contains sensitive content which some people may find offensive or disturbing. Click to reveal Print Options: Images Multimedia Embedded Content Comments Cancel Print Link has been copied to clipboard Home United States U.S. News All About America World Africa The Americas East Asia Europe Middle East South & Central Asia Broadcast Programs VOA Languages Latest Global Coverage Follow Us Languages Search Search Previous Next Breaking News Iran UN: Iran using drones to enforce hijab law By VOA News March 15, 2025 4:49 AM UN: Iran using drones to enforce hijab law Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share Iran A Friday report by the United Nations says Iran is using advanced technology, including drones, facial recognition and a citizen-reporting app to crack down on violations of its mandatory hijab laws. A key element of the effort is the government-backed Nazer app, which enables the police and "vetted" members of the public to report alleged violations by women in vehicles, including those in ambulances, mass transit and taxis. The report describes the app as allowing users to upload the vehicle license plate, location and time of an alleged violation. It then, according to the report, alerts police. Then, according to the report, the app "triggers a text message (in real-time) to the registered owner of the vehicle, warning them that they had been found in violation of the mandatory hijab laws, and that their vehicles would be impounded for ignoring these warnings." According to the report, authorities are using drones in Tehran and the southern part of the country to monitor hijab compliance in public areas, as well as new facial recognition software said to have been installed last year at the entrance of Tehran’s Amirkabir University. The report is to go to the U.N. Human Rights Council on Tuesday. UN: Iran using drones to enforce hijab law Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share Follow us Facebook X (Twitter) Youtube Instagram Follow us Print VOA News The Voice of America provides news and information in more than 40 languages to an estimated weekly audience of over 326 million people. Stories with the VOA News byline are the work of multiple VOA journalists and may contain information from wire service reports. This item is part of Middle East Technology Iran Related Kurds in Iran celebrate Nowruz despite threats from Iranian Guards 3 prisoners face risk of amputation in Iran Iran rejects US talks, raising fears of conflict Exclusive: Second Iranian ship suspected of carrying missile ingredient leaves China ​ Follow Us United States US News All About America World Africa The Americas East Asia Pacific Europe Middle East South & Central Asia Sections VOA Programs Special projects Day in Photos VOA News on Iran VOA News on China 52 Documentary Videos More From VOA VOAAfrica.com Programs VOA Learning English Editorials About this site Terms of Use & Privacy Notice About VOA Get VOA+ VOA Around the World Contact VOA Media Relations Usage Requests VOA Pronunciation Guide XS SM MD LG