Norah O'Donnell: 7 things I learned from trainer Kira Stokes - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Cyberattacks World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds Healthful with Norah O'Donnell | Listen Now CBS News Podcasts Watch CBS News Healthful with Norah O'Donnell Norah O'Donnell: 7 things I learned from trainer Kira Stokes By Norah O'Donnell Norah O'Donnell Senior Correspondent; Contributing Correspondent, 60 Minutes Norah O'Donnell is a multiple Emmy-Award winning 60 Minutes correspondent. Previously, O'Donnell served as the managing editor and anchor of the "CBS Evening News" for more than five years, in addition to anchoring CBS News election specials. O'Donnell is also the host of "Healthful with Norah O'Donnell," a CBS News podcast focused on women's health. Read Full Bio Norah O'Donnell August 5, 2026 / 9:09 AM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Since I started working out with Kira Stokes 12 years ago, my knowledge about health has expanded, and my personal health and happiness have improved. She taught me to treat movement as medicine for both your body and mind. Kira has been in the fitness industry for three decades and has dozens of certifications. She is the founder of the Stoked Method with award-winning workouts. Here are some of the things I've learned from Kira: Lift heavier When I started working out with Kira at age 40, she encouraged me to lift heavier weights. I was resistant. I liked muscles but was more focused on being toned. That's when she taught me that muscle and strength training is an insurance policy for the future. I was stunned to learn that women lose between 3% and 8% of muscle mass per decade after the age of 30 if we don't challenge our muscles and build strength. It does get harder after 50, but it's also even more important At age 52, I've found that maintaining and building muscle has gotten harder. That's because of the hormonal shift and decrease of estrogen in menopause. Kira says that's why it's even more important to strength train as we get older. In addition to muscle loss, women lose up to 20% of their bone density in the five to seven years after they hit menopause. Muscle, however, provides hormone regulation and protection for your bones. Kira says it offers you the freedom of movement and will allow me to get on the ground to play with my future grandkids and keep putting my carry-on in the overhead bin on an airplane, without help! Bone loss is reversible One of the big wake-up calls in aging is reading the data about how devastating a bone break from a fall can be – it can even be deadly. That's why the exercises you do in your 50s and 60s can help make sure that if you fall, you're not going to break something that leaves you essentially immobile. Kira is big on reminding people that it's never too late to reverse that. Balance: Use it or lose it A lot of the workouts I do with Kira include exercises on one leg. That's because functional movement is movement you can apply to life. Balance is something that comes from your core and helps improve your quality of life down the road. Movement is therapy If I don't move and exercise, I start feeling sad and stressed out. Exercise is just as important for my physical health as it is for my mental health. Kira was a psychology major in college. She says the way you connect to other people and the way that you can truly talk about your feelings is through movement. Half of our workouts are talking about family, friends and challenges. But you don't need a trainer for that. Go on a walk with a friend and you'll find relief physically and mentally. Posture and good form rule Kira is big on form and good posture to prevent injury. She says your setup and your success start before the first rep. It starts with body awareness and understanding how to perform a movement properly. Every movement counts One of the most common questions I get is: "How do you make the time to exercise with such a busy schedule?" Sometimes, I don't – that is the truth we all face. Since working with Kira, I've started prioritizing my health. She also taught me that "movement snacks" are just as important as a big workout. If I have 5 minutes, it's enough time to add to my movement bank with squats on a chair or bicep curls with whatever heavy object I have in my office. She's helped me see a bench in the park as a piece of exercise equipment. More from CBS News Former Virginia Gov. Youngkin launches new conservative policy group Which student loan borrowers qualify for public service loan forgiveness in 2026? Qdoba removes jalapeños as salmonella outbreak spreads to 27 states Cyclospora outbreak tied to lettuce now linked to 15 states, CDC says Go deeper with The Free Press Going for the Gold—on Steroids Death Is Nothing to Be Feared In: Health Exercise © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Exercise: Your Insurance Policy for the Future Exercise: Your Insurance Policy for the Future 01:06:56 Exercise: Your Insurance Policy for the Future (01:06:56) Former Virginia Gov. Youngkin launches new conservative policy group Which student loan borrowers qualify for public service loan forgiveness in 2026? Qdoba removes jalapeños as salmonella outbreak spreads to 27 states Going for the Gold—on Steroids Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue