Anti-Trump conservatives Tucker Carlson, MTG, Massie huddle about launching third-party movement - POLITICO Skip to Main Content Toggle menu More from Politico Europe Pro E&E News AgencyIQ Press Escape to close the menu. search for any story WASHINGTON & POLITICS WASHINGTON & POLITICS 6 items 1st item Congress 2nd item White House 3rd item Supreme Court and Legal Issues 4th item Magazine 5th item 2026 Elections 6th item Latest on POLITICO STATE POLITICS & POLICY STATE POLITICS & POLICY 4 items 1st item California 2nd item Florida 3rd item New Jersey 4th item New York GLOBAL POLITICS & POLICY GLOBAL POLITICS & POLICY 6 items 1st item Brussels 2nd item Canada 3rd item United Kingdom 4th item France 5th item Germany 6th item Australia POLICY NEWS POLICY NEWS 11 items 1st item Food and Agriculture 2nd item Cybersecurity 3rd item Defense 4th item Education 5th item Energy and Climate 6th item Tax, Finance and the Economy 7th item Health Care 8th item Labor 9th item Tech 10th item Trade 11th item Transportation NEWSLETTERS NEWSLETTERS 6 items 1st item Playbook 2nd item West Wing Playbook 3rd item Inside Congress 4th item POLITICO Forecast 5th item POLITICO Magazine 6th item All Newsletters COLUMNISTS COLUMNISTS 7 items 1st item Alex Burns 2nd item Victoria Guida 3rd item John Harris 4th item Debra Kahn 5th item Jonathan Martin 6th item Nahal Toosi 7th item All Columnists SERIES & MORE SERIES & MORE 7 items 1st item Inside Congress Live 2nd item Breaking News Alerts 3rd item Podcasts 4th item Video 5th item Matt Wuerker Cartoons 6th item Cartoon Carousel 7th item The POLITICO Poll POLITICO Live POLITICO Live 1 item 1st item Events Follow us X Instagram Facebook LinkedIn My Account Log In Anti-Trump conservatives Tucker Carlson, MTG, Massie huddle about launching third-party movement Marjorie Taylor Greene says the president has "betrayed us all." Conservative commentator Tucker Carlson, a former Trump ally, was among the group of conservatives who broke from the president on foreign policy. | Alex Brandon/AP By Aaron Pellish and Emilio Perez Ibarguen 08/05/2026 02:34 PM EDT Share Copy link X Facebook Email Reddit WhatsApp LinkedIn President Donald Trump ’s most vocal opponents on the right were sowing the seeds for a future third-party political organization during a weekend get-together aimed at undercutting the Republican establishment. The meeting at Tucker Carlson’s compound in Maine with Rep. Thomas Massie , former Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene and others — captured in a photo posted by Greene on Saturday — served as a launch pad for a possible independent presidential campaign focused on unwinding U.S. involvement in foreign conflicts. “We said no more foreign wars and we meant it and supported Donald Trump because he made that promise. But he’s betrayed us all,” Greene wrote in the post. “The movement has begun.” Joe Kent , the former Trump national security official who resigned earlier this year and attended the weekend confab with Carlson , said the group congregated to strategize on how to best organize their shared opposition to the war in Iran. “There’s a lot more nuts-and-bolts work that needs to be done there,” Kent said in an interview on “The Young Turks,” the progressive talk show. “Running as a third-party candidate is challenging. Not impossible, but it is very challenging. But that’s kind of the consensus that we came to, that the current system just simply doesn’t work, and we have to find something new to save our country.” Carlson , Greene and Massie all backed Trump ahead of the 2024 election. But each one broke with Trump over the course of his second term as the Trump administration continued to coordinate military operations with Israel in the Middle East. Greene and Massie were also loudly critical of Trump’s opposition to releasing federal investigative documents relating to convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein , further drawing Trump ’s ire. It’s unclear who would lead the newborn movement. Kent said every attendee at the Maine meeting urged Carlson to run for president in 2028 with their group’s backing but noted that Carlson said he wouldn’t run. “Hopefully he wakes up one day and Tucker says he’s going to run,” Kent said. Carlson and Massie did not respond to requests for comment. Greene declined to comment. The challenges facing third-party and independent presidential candidates are enormous. They must navigate different signature requirements and deadlines in each state just to get on the ballot. Past independent campaigns have been unable to compete financially with the two major parties. The most recent third-party presidential campaign — Robert F. Kennedy Jr .’s independent bid in 2024 — ended months before Election Day when Kennedy endorsed Trump . At the time he dropped out, Kennedy was polling in single digits and fighting lawsuits seeking to block him from the ballot in multiple states. Kent said the policy platform for the group’s hypothetical third-party campaign in 2028 would ignore most domestic matters and further emphasize their staunch anti-interventionism. “I think it is having a very, very simple platform, and it’s acknowledging upfront, like, we are going to disagree on a lot of domestic policy and a lot of social issues,” Kent said. “At the end of the day, the president can talk a lot about all those things, but he really doesn’t have a lot of power.” “We do agree that we don’t want Israel dictating our foreign policy,” he added. “We don’t want any more foreign wars.” Carlson didn’t signal his involvement in any broader political project or back a third-party candidate for 2028 during his show Wednesday. Instead, he delivered an hour-long monologue laying out his worldview and aspirations for the country. His vision covered familiar territory — including encouraging Americans to have more children, ending immigration and promoting healthy foods. In addition to denouncing Trump , he called Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth a “deranged, bloodthirsty monkey,” for his conduct during the Iran War. Lisa Kashinsky, Alec Hernandez and Sam Benson contributed to this story. Watch: The Conversation Adam Schiff on Democrats’ ‘losing message,’ AOC and AIPAC Related Tags Tucker Carlson Marjorie Taylor Greene Thomas Massie Third Parties Third Party 2028 Elections Foreign Affairs Iran War 2026 Israel Loading POLITICO Forecast Global power is in flux. Your daily guide to what comes next. Email By signing up, you acknowledge and agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service . You may unsubscribe at any time by following the directions at the bottom of the email or by contacting us here . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign Up * All fields must be completed to subscribe About Us Advertising Breaking News Alerts Careers Credit Card Payments FAQ Feedback Headlines Photos Press Request A Correction Write For Us RSS Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information and Opt Out of Targeted Advertising © 2026 POLITICO LLC