Authorities arrest arson suspect in connection with wildfires in Spokane : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Authorities arrest arson suspect in connection with wildfires in Spokane The suspect was arrested in connection with one of three wildfires in Spokane, Wash., that have destroyed hundreds of homes and displaced nearly a quarter of the city's residents. National Authorities arrest an arson suspect in connection with wildfires in Spokane August 4, 2026 6:56 AM ET Kirk Siegler A car sits melted in the backyard of a home burnt by the Old Trails Fire in Spokane, Wash. as fires continue a third day on August 3, 2026. Margaret Albaugh for NPR hide caption toggle caption Margaret Albaugh for NPR SPOKANE, Wash. — The Spokane County Sheriff's Office has arrested a suspect in connection with its investigation into the Old Trails fire, the most destructive wildfire of the three burning in and around this eastern Washington city. National Washington wildfires destroy homes, force thousands to evacuate Authorities say 37-year-old Aaron Farinacci, a convicted felon, was arrested at his home without incident and is being charged with arson in the first degree. The suspect's home was also searched. Sheriff John Nowels said a tip from a citizen, who reported seeing a man "bending down near some grass" in the area where the fire started, led investigators to detain a suspect early in the investigation. The man, identified as Farinacci, was questioned and released but was arrested again later by major crimes detectives and investigators as more details emerged during the investigation, Nowels said in a press conference. Sponsor Message Nowels said authorities believe Farinacci used matches or a lighter to start the fire, both items found on him at the time of his arrest. The suspect will make his first court appearance on Tuesday, according to county prosecutor Preston McCollam. It wasn't immediately clear whether Farinacci had an attorney who could speak on his behalf, according to The Associated Press. Authorities said the cause of the fires is still under investigation. The blazes have been fueled by high winds and temperatures and dry weather. Since last weekend, the wildfires have displaced 65,000 people, destroyed some 700 buildings and burned through 7,000 acres of land. Support staff of the California Complex Incident Management Team 7 give briefings to firefighters as day crew and night crew switch on the evening of August 3, 2026 at Mt. Spokane High School in Mead, Wash. Margaret Albaugh for NPR hide caption toggle caption Margaret Albaugh for NPR They have also forced the evacuation of businesses, the region's Veterans Affairs hospital campus and other healthcare facilities. There have been no reports of deaths or injuries so far. Those who have been evacuated are seeking refuge at the Spokane Convention Center, at a Red Cross shelter. Charlie Patrick evacuated on Saturday and is staying with her son at this shelter. Patrick, who is 54 and disabled, said she left her apartment with nothing and doesn't know whether it burned down. "I hope it is still there," she said, choking back tears. "I have a lot of memories and pictures and stuff of my family I can't get back." Sponsor Message Firefighters on Monday and Tuesday were trying to take advantage of a brief reprieve in the high winds to contain the fires before another heat wave is forecast to arrive midweek. Firefighters work to douse hot spots on the Old Trails Fire on Tuesday. Kirk Siegler/NPR hide caption toggle caption Kirk Siegler/NPR Spokane Mayor Lisa Brown told NPR's Morning Edition that the city of 230,000 people faced "an unprecedented situation." Hundreds of people, including many elderly, are staying at the Red Cross shelter in downtown Spokane. Nursing staff helped people change clothes behind blankets. In an interview with NPR's Here & Now on Monday, Washington Gov. Bob Ferguson described Spokane as a "war zone." "It's devastating," Ferguson said, adding that neighborhoods in the city had been "wiped out." Ferguson said he spoke with President Trump and Homeland Security Secretary Markwayne Mullin on Sunday and had put in a request to the federal government "for an emergency declaration for immediate relief." He said that included relief for housing and food, as well as search and rescue assistance. spokane Washington State wildfires Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Consider This from NPR What are the implications of a shrinking supply of U.S. missiles? Sources & Methods A trip to the world’s frayed edges with Hannah Lucinda Smith’s 'Hinterlands' Ukraine invasion — explained The soaring demand for Patriot missiles, from the Middle East to Ukraine Planet Money Newsletter The sneaky economics of healthwashing Elections Primaries in the Midwest have become a high stakes proving ground for progressives Business Why Texas is betting 'Y'all Street' can take on Wall Street Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org National Guard deployments A veteran was detained by the National Guard in her front yard. Now she's suing Politics 5 states have primary elections on Tuesday. These are the races to watch Trump's Terms 'Useless, junk prosecutions': legal analyst on DOJ's Reflecting Pool case Law She protested ICE raids. Then agents showed up at her door News Capital One says it closed Trump Organization accounts over money-laundering concerns The Indicator from Planet Money Trump’s new Truth Social plan: pay $100K NPR Editors' Picks Business SpaceX's revenue rises as its once-soaring stock price drifts back to Earth My Unsung Hero A volunteer's unexpected advice changed how she faced cancer News Senate Democrats say banks turned blind eye to suspicious moves by Jeffrey Epstein Europe Europe's heat wave fuels drought, wildfires and fears about energy supplies Book Reviews 'Country People' is a silly, satisfying midsummer romp The Book Ahead 13 new books in August will get you through the dog days of summer Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices