SpaceX stock falls 13% after AI spending surge rattles investors Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech SpaceX stock falls 13% as AI spending surge rattles investors and massive share unlock looms Published Wed, Aug 5 2026 4:06 AM EDT Updated 2 Hours Ago Arjun Kharpal @/in/arjunkharpal/ @ArjunKharpal WATCH LIVE Key Points SpaceX shares fell on Wednesday after the company's jump in spending rattled investors. The company said its capital expenditures jumped sixfold to $18.4 billion in the second quarter. CEO Elon Musk said SpaceX would hit $1 trillion in annual revenue in 2030 versus a previous forecast of 2031, as he tried to allay investor fears. In this article NVDA SPCX TSLA Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 6:25 06:25 Expect SpaceX's free cash flow to weigh on the stock in the near term, says Evercore's Mark Mahaney Squawk Box SpaceX shares sank 13.6% on Wednesday after a surge in artificial intelligence spending rattled investors and clouded an otherwise expectation-beating quarter. In SpaceX's first earnings report as a public company on Tuesday, Elon Musk 's space firm said its capital expenditures jumped sixfold to $18.4 billion in the second quarter. This figure was ahead of analyst expectations, with the majority of the spending going toward AI. The company's stock closed at just over $125 on Tuesday, sitting below its $135 initial public offering price. It is well off its more than $200 all-time high that was hit shortly after it began trading on June 12. SpaceX shares over the past five days. Investors have been on edge this earnings season as concerns rise about whether large tech companies can prove their multibillion-dollar investments are yielding returns. While SpaceX's own models are seen as behind OpenAI and Anthropic, the company is positioning itself as an alternative cloud player by renting out the computing capacity that it is building with Nvidia chips. SpaceX's CFO, Bret Johnsen, looked to allay investor fears over capex spending. The company has been "efficient" with its spending, he said on an earnings call. "On the AI compute side, we're able to deploy capital in such a way that we're getting less than a one-year payback," Johnsen added. watch now VIDEO 4:46 04:46 Can SpaceX get enough upfront revenue to build data centers? Squawk Box Europe The share price fell even as SpaceX narrowed its losses and promised significant future revenue. Musk said SpaceX would hit $1 trillion in annual revenue in 2030 versus a previous forecast of 2031. "SpaceX wants to tell the story they're the market leader. ... But people still have these questions: how quickly can they grow? How big are the costs going to be before this thing gets to profitability?" Steve Westly, founder of The Westly Group and a former Tesla board member, told CNBC's " Squawk Box Europe " on Wednesday. The company is contending with another potential market-moving event on Thursday — the expiration of insider lockups. This means that insiders can finally sell a portion of their shares. watch now VIDEO 1:43 01:43 SpaceX moves towards becoming an AI cloud player Squawk Box Europe Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by