United Wholesale Mortgage plunges 35%; suspends dividend, raises capital Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Markets United Wholesale Mortgage plunges 35% after suspending dividend and raising capital Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 1:44 PM EDT Updated Thu, Aug 6 2026 4:37 PM EDT Yun Li @YunLi626 WATCH LIVE In this article UWMC Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT United Wholesale Mortgage at the NYSE, January 22, 2021 Source: The New York Stock Exchange Shares in UWM Holdings , parent of United Wholesale Mortgage, plunged 35% on Thursday after the biggest U.S. mortgage lender suspended its dividend and raised fresh capital. UWM announced a $2.05 billion equity investment from Oaktree Capital Management and SFS Group Capital LLC, a newly formed investment vehicle owned by family of CEO Mat Ishbia. The family is also the majority owner of the NBA's Phoenix Suns. Pontiac, Michigan-based UWM also said it suspended its quarterly dividend to preserve capital. "We're taking decisive action to make UWM stronger, more liquid and better positioned to win for years to come," Ishbia said in a statement. UWM shares have now collapsed about 83% from their 52-week high, set in September 2025. UWM Holdings year to date The capital raise comes as UWM's financial position weakened during the latest quarter. Total equity fell to about $1 billion as of June 30 from $1.6 billion at the end of March, while available liquidity stood at approximately $1.3 billion, including $498 million in cash and borrowing capacity. The moves come as mortgage lenders continue to grapple with one of the toughest operating environments in years. Investors have recently pushed up Treasury yields amid renewed expectations that benchmark Federal Reserve lending rates could stay where they are or even move up in the face of stubborn inflation. Elevated mortgage rates that are tied to the Treasury market have in turn kept homebuyers on the sidelines and limited refinancing activity, further dimming the outlook for the housing market. UWM lost $451.9 million on revenue of $888 million in the second quarter, reversing net income of $170.4 million in the first quarter and a profit of $314.5 million a year earlier. Mortgage originations totaled $39.7 billion in the second quarter, down from $44.9 billion in the prior quarter but were essentially unchanged from a year earlier. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by