TikTok influencer’s ex-husband seeks to block alleged killer’s beneficiaries from her estate IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline U.S. news TikTok influencer’s ex-husband seeks to block alleged killer’s beneficiaries from her estate Sara Gilson’s second husband “intentionally and feloniously’ took her life in an apparent murder-suicide, and his beneficiaries “should be barred from inheriting her estate,” court filings say. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Sara Gilson and Shawn Duffey @mrsgilson via TikTok; @duffdaddy1 via TikTok Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 4, 2026, 4:52 PM EDT By Daniel Arkin and Meriam Bouarrouj The ex-husband of the social media influencer who authorities say died at the hands of her estranged second husband in an apparent murder-suicide has filed suit to block the alleged killer’s beneficiaries from inheriting any portion of her estate. In a four-page court filing, Lyle Landers claimed that his ex-wife, TikTok influencer Sara Gilson, died without a will. She “left an estate consisting of personal property” in Tulsa, Oklahoma, Landers’ lawyers wrote. Landers and Gilson had two children together before she married Jeremiah Shawn Duffey. Duffey, 48, fatally shot Gilson, 43, on July 23 in Owasso, Oklahoma, according to the local police department. She had publicly accused him of pedophilia days earlier. In the court filing, Landers’ lawyers wrote that because Duffey “intentionally and feloniously took” Gilson’s life, any of his beneficiaries “should be barred from inheriting her estate.” Landers’ lawyers cited an Oklahoma law informally known as “the slayer statute,” which blocks a person who killed someone from inheriting their money or property. Landers “believes he is entitled to serve as Administrator of said estate,” his lawyers wrote. He “seeks to preserve and protect [the] decedent’s estate for” their children, who are minors, they added. In an interview with NBC News after Gilson’s killing, Landers said he repeatedly urged his ex-wife to leave Duffey after learning about domestic abuse in their marriage. “I always told her, ‘You’re not locked into this; get away.’ ... I tried to tell her I don’t feel this is a good situation for you or our children,” Landers said. “I knew that he had violent tendencies, but I didn’t think he had this in him. I really didn’t.” Gilson sought multiple protection orders against Duffey dating back five years, according to court records reviewed by NBC News. In the applications, Duffey alleged a range of physical, verbal and emotional abuse. Gilson’s most recent protection order was filed June 10, according to court records. The same day, the parent of a girl Duffey coached on a youth basketball team accused him of molesting her child in a protection order of her own. Duffey fled after the child abuse allegation was leveled. He had not been seen by police again until he and Gilson were found dead from apparent gunshot wounds to the head in what law enforcement officials believe was a murder-suicide. Authorities are still investigating the killings. Share Add NBC News to Google Daniel Arkin Daniel Arkin is a senior reporter at NBC News. Meriam Bouarrouj Meriam Bouarrouj is an NBC News assignment editor. About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC