Trump challenged with cold reality by allies Todd Blanche and Jeanine Pirro - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat US & Canada Analysis: Trump challenged by cold reality from top allies Figure caption, Watch: "She folded like an umbrella" - Trump attacks Jeanine Pirro over Reflecting Pool By Anthony Zurcher North America correspondent Published 4 August 2026, 00:54 BST Updated 10:11 BST It's been a humbling few days for Donald Trump, even if the American president is reluctant to acknowledge it. In a series of setbacks, Trump has faced adversity in matters both large and small; two of which he cares about dearly and one that could determine his and his party's political fate for the remaining two years of his presidential term. From a flawed attempt to renovate a Washington landmark to questions about his pick to head the justice department to increasingly complicated efforts to end his war in Iran, the president has been handling tricky issues - many of his own making. Trump's response has been a familiar one. A first term refrain - that the president makes his own reality with "alternative facts" - is still the operative one. He sticks to beliefs even in the face of conflicting evidence. Unlike his first term, however, when many of his most notable conflicts were with dissenters in his own administration, this time around he has butted heads even with those who have proven themselves the most loyal to him. Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Few would have predicted Trump battling with his handpicked attorney for Washington DC On Friday, US Attorney Jeanine Pirro, a former Fox News host and stalwart Trump ally, moved to drop felony destruction of property charges against former Olympian David Hearn, who federal prosecutors had accused of intentionally damaging the Reflecting Pool near the Washington Monument. "The damage was the result of a botched installation and not vandalism," she wrote in a 20-page court filing announcing her department's decision. She attributed her decision to prosecute Hearn as the result of misleading information provided by the Department of Interior. Trump may embrace alternative facts, but the evidence Pirro confronted - what she would have had to defend in court, before a judge and potentially sceptical jury - provided scarce support for her case. And so she abandoned it. Trump had enthusiastically endorsed the vandalism explanation, however, and he stuck by it. In a Truth Social post on Saturday, he criticised Pirro's decision to drop the case and did so again in comments from the Oval Office on Monday. "She folded like an umbrella," he griped. If the Reflecting Pool case was an instance of Trump being forced to face legal reality, up on Capitol Hill it was an unpleasant political reality that confronted him. One of Trump's closest allies – his former criminal defence attorney Todd Blanche – was hitting stiff headwinds in his bid to become attorney general on a permanent basis. Two Republican senators, John Cornyn of Texas and Thom Tillis of North Carolina, had joined Democrats to block Blanche's nomination. They were demanding Blanche provide a letter formally disavowing any attempts to revive the proposed $1.8bn (£1.34bn) fund to pay individuals who claimed to have been the targets of politicised government prosecution. Tillis called it a "payout pot for punks" amid concerns it could be used to compensate people prosecuted over the US Capitol riot by Trump's supporters in 2021. Trump administration drops Reflecting Pool vandalism charge and admits 'botched' repairs Published 3 days ago Holdout senators back Blanche for AG after he formally withdraws Trump fund plan Published 1 day ago In another Saturday Truth Social post, Trump wrote that he would keep Blanche on as acting attorney general and "push hard" to get Congress to pass legislation authorising the fund. "It will immediately be back on the table, and I will get it done," he wrote, suggesting that no matter what the ultimate outcome of Blanche's nomination, Trump is unlikely to ever let the issue go. The political maths in the Senate, however, was undeniable. By the next day Blanche had acceded to the senators' request, releasing two letters that Tillis and Cornyn said satisfied their concerns. In comments from the White House on Monday, Blanche escaped the scolding that Pirro the prosecutor received. Trump said he "didn't look at" Blanche's documents. "I understand there's been a sign-off, but I don't know what they agreed," he said. Figure caption, Trump on Blanche: "He's going to do a great job" While the Reflecting Pool prosecution and the so-called "anti-weaponisation fund" may be topics of intense presidential interest, they barely register as concerns for the larger American public. That is decidedly not the case with the war with Iran, where Trump is once again accusing Iran of deceit amid another round of on-again, off-again negotiations and threats of overwhelming American military action. On Monday, after asserting the previous day that he had called off "an attack that would have been the biggest attack since World War II" at the behest of Iranian officials and Arab intermediaries, Trump took to Truth Social to condemn what he said was Iranian duplicity after Iran denied any new direct negotiations. "They ask for a meeting, some would say 'beg', talks begin, with more scheduled in the immediate future, and they say, openly and proudly, that they're not having any discussions," Trump wrote. If Iranians are misrepresenting the status of talks it wouldn't be the first time - but it also wouldn't be the first time Trump has seemingly taken their assurances at face value and heralded a new diplomatic breakthrough. US officials told the BBC's partner CBS News on Monday that no "new" or novel negotiations with Iran were planned. An Iranian official said the country's only current talks were with Oman, over the future of shipping in the Strait of Hormuz. The latest twists in the war have become a familiar pattern with little progress, as polls continue to show American disapproval of the conflict and concern that Trump is not achieving his war goals. Those recent public-opinion surveys suggest the war has become a growing drag on the president's overall popularity. A recent Associated Press poll puts Trump's approval at 33%, aligned with similar findings by CNN, Quinnipiac and YouGov. That matches or is below Trump's ratings after the Capitol riot and is above only Richard Nixon – who resigned from office in disgrace - among second-term US presidents in modern American history. Trump, however, has repeatedly dismissed surveys suggesting his historic unpopularity. "My REAL Polling Numbers, not those made up by the Fake News Media, are the best they have ever been," he posted to Truth Social on Monday. In three months, voters will head to the polls for congressional midterm elections. And Trump has shown surprising strength at the ballot box in the past, even in the face of seemingly daunting poll numbers. While Trump may be grappling with – and, at times denying - recent adversity, that will be the ultimate measure of his political fate. And if Republicans struggle, it may provide yet another reality that Trump, despite his best efforts, must eventually face. Follow the twists and turns of Trump's second term with North America correspondent Anthony Zurcher's weekly US Politics Unspun newsletter. Readers in the UK can sign up here . Those outside the UK can sign up here . Related topics Donald Trump United States US politics More on this story Holdout senators back Blanche for AG after he formally withdraws Trump fund plan Published 1 day ago The end of Trump's 'anti-weaponisation' fund is another sign Republicans are fighting back Published 3 June The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:01 Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack. 00:01:01, play video Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack 0:57 Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites. 00:00:57, play video Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport 1:01 What are the 'luteal uglies'? 00:01:01, play video What are the 'luteal uglies'? 0:59 Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 00:00:59, play video Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 0:40 US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak. 00:00:40, play video US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak 0:35 PC Harper's mother on early release for killers. 00:00:35, play video PC Harper's mother on early release for killers 0:41 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti. 00:00:41, play video 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti 0:54 Why Scotland's exam results come first. 00:00:54, play video Why Scotland's exam results come first 1:06 Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 00:01:06, play video Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 0:39 Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests. 00:00:39, play video Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests 1:09 Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos. 00:01:09, play video Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos 0:25 Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas. 00:00:25, play video Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas 0:45 Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer. 00:00:45, play video Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer 0:55 Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight. 00:00:55, play video Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight 0:27 Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend. 00:00:27, play video Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend 0:59 How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president. 00:00:59, play video How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president 1:57 Are some schools taking discipline too far? 00:01:57, play video Are some schools taking discipline too far? Top stories Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack Published 4 hours ago More than 170 migrants rescued after boat catches fire in Channel Published 2 hours ago Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece Published 2 hours ago More to explore Which area has the best grades? Key takeaways from Scotland's exam results How to avoid the worst of the Italian heat I left my wife and twins behind - why this Nigerian man fled South Africa Breast cancer checks missing most women under 50 who are at risk, says study There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger After three traumatic years at uni, I fear I won't get my dream nursing job Woman has pioneering womb surgery to fix 'miracle' baby with intestines outside its body Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC 'I said maybeeee...' Follow police investigations from the 999 call to conviction The return of the thrilling, award-winning drama about the CIA Tommy and John Fury debate what makes a home Most read 1 Princess Eugenie gives birth to baby girl in Portugal 2 Athletes go 'missing' after Commonwealth Games ends 3 Major search under way for boy, 13, missing at sea 4 Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack 5 Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece 6 Bono, Eddie Vedder and Hozier among mourners at Glen Hansard's funeral 7 Man 'driven insane' by noise admits killing fish 8 Care company fined for running illegal children's homes in legal first 9 Ed Sheeran fined for failing to insure Aston Martin 10 Oil prices fall on hopes Strait of Hormuz could reopen BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.