Etsy layoffs: Online marketplace cutting 12% of staff Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech Etsy laying off 12% of staff in bid to streamline business, position for growth Published Wed, Aug 5 2026 4:05 PM EDT Updated Wed, Aug 5 2026 7:20 PM EDT Annie Palmer @in/annierpalmer/ WATCH LIVE Key Points Etsy announced layoffs on Wednesday that will hit about 220 employees. CEO Kruti Patel Goyal said in a note that the cuts will position the company for growth. The digital marketplace has faced increasing competition from Amazon and Walmart, along with newer e-commerce entrants TikTok Shop and Temu. In this article ETSY Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT The Etsy Inc. headquarters in the Brooklyn borough of New York, US, on Tuesday, June 25, 2024. Victor J. Blue | Bloomberg | Getty Images Etsy said Wednesday it's laying off about 220 employees, or roughly 12% of its workforce, as the online marketplace looks to simplify its organizational structure and innovate faster in an increasingly competitive e-commerce industry. Etsy CEO Kruti Patel Goyal , who took over the helm at the beginning of this year, told staffers in a memo that the job cuts will position the company for "building the organization we believe Etsy needs for the future." Most of the cuts will impact Etsy's product and engineering teams, the company said. The layoffs, which were announced alongside Etsy's second-quarter earnings results, aren't a cost-cutting effort, but are intended to help the company "lean in during a period of strong momentum so that we can move faster and execute with even greater focus," Etsy wrote in its letter to shareholders. The cuts also weren't driven by artificial intelligence , an Etsy spokesperson said. "You've heard me say that our first priority was to get the business growing again," Patel Goyal wrote in the staff memo. "Our ultimate goal, though, has always been to take Etsy to the next level of growth so we can fully deliver on our mission and our potential. We are now at the point where we need to make that shift - to build the team, culture, and organization that will make that possible." Read more CNBC tech news SpaceX revenue jumps 92% and AI costs soar in first earnings report since IPO NJ files antitrust suit against Amazon, alleging it unlawfully wielded power over delivery contractors Palantir stock skyrockets on 'otherworldly' commercial revenue — here's what's driving the demand How the 'Baby iPhone' and an Apple supplier leak explain China's recent supply chain moves Etsy runs a digital marketplace that's known for its assortment of handcrafted and artisanal wares. The company's business boomed during the Covid-19 pandemic, as shoppers flocked to online retailers in droves, but it struggled to keep that momentum going once lockdowns eased and consumers returned to physical stores. The company has also faced growing pressure to compete with rivals like Amazon and Walmart , along with newer e-commerce entrants TikTok Shop and Temu. Under Patel Goyal and her predecessor, Josh Silverman, the company has looked to double down on its reputation as a marketplace for unique products, while weeding out mass-produced, generic items from resellers. In a warning shot to Amazon, the company in June launched a "Shop Other Jeffs" advertising campaign during the retail giant's Prime Day promotion that featured "non-billionaire makers" named Jeff. It's also made improvements to search capabilities on its website to show more personalized results to shoppers and help them discover items faster. So far, the changes appear to be bearing fruit. For the second quarter, sales came in at $668.3 million, while analysts surveyed by LSEG expected $649.1 million. Sales on its core marketplace grew 9.3%. The company boosted its full year guidance for gross merchandise sales, or the dollar value of items sold, projecting they'll grow in the mid-single-digit range, up from low-single-digit growth. For the third quarter, the company expects GMS to be between $2.53 billion and $2.58 billion, beating consensus estimates of $2.49 billion, according to FactSet. Etsy has been facing year over year declines in the number of buyers on its platform. The company had 87 million active buyers in the second quarter, down 0.4% from one year ago. But for the second quarter in a row, it added more merchants year over year to the Etsy marketplace, hosting 5.7 million sellers, up 5.9%. Etsy posted a net loss of $46.65 million during the quarter, a loss of 36 cents per share, compared to a year-ago net income of $28.84 million, or 25 cents per share. The net loss included discontinued operations, which included last month's completed sale of Depop to eBay for $1.4 billion in cash. The sale came five years after it acquired the secondhand marketplace for $1.6 billion. Etsy has been offloading other brands in its portfolio as part of its effort to focus on the core marketplace business. Diluted net income from continuing operations per share was 98 cents per share, versus 39 cents per share a year ago. FactSet was expecting that metric to come in at 75 cents per share. VIDEO 7:03 07:03 Watch CNBC's full interview with Etsy CEO Josh Silverman Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by