CPI | Federal Reserve OKs UBS Acquisition Of Credit Suisse’s US Subsi… PYMNTS | Federal Reserve OKs UBS Acquisition Of Credit Suisse’s US Su… Account --> Verify Email --> --> --> Subscribe | Join --> A PYMNTS Company --> 1 unread messages --> Pricing News Columns Antitrust Chronicles TechREG Chronicles Blog o' Blogs Events CPI TV Books Audio --> CPI Journal --> Library --> Federal Reserve OKs UBS Acquisition Of Credit Suisse’s US Subsidiaries By CPI | April 17, 2023 On Friday, the Federal Reserve announced that UBS’s application to acquire the U.S. subsidiaries of Credit Suisse Group had been approved. Get the Full Story Complete the form to unlock this article and enjoy unlimited free access to all PYMNTS content — no additional logins required. yes Subscribe to our daily newsletter, PYMNTS Today. By completing this form, you agree to receive marketing communications from PYMNTS and to the sharing of your information with our sponsor, if applicable, in accordance with our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions . Δ UBs will provide the board with a plan for the acquisition of Credit Suisse’s New York City-based holding company. The plan will be updated quarterly and will consider combining the U.S. business and operations of UBS and Credit Suisse, as well as addressing UBS’s obligations to comply with more stringent enhanced prudential standards, including liquidity standards. The Fed made a statement regarding this matter. We’d love to be your preferred source for news . Please add us to your preferred sources list so our news, data and interviews show up in your feed. Thanks! Add as Preferred Source Read more: Swiss Parliament Rejects Credit Suisse Rescue Package On March 22, UBS requested approval from the Fed for the acquisition, which occurred just three days after the bank combination was made public. UBS is set to acquire Credit Suisse’s American business, which includes investment banking, private banking, corporate debt underwriting, and asset management. Featured News States, Writers Guild Urge Judge to Reject Paramount’s $1.9 Billion Bond Demand Sep 1, 2026 by CPI EU Examines Google’s AI Search Opt-Out for Publishers Sep 1, 2026 by CPI US Urges G-20 to Take Light-Touch Approach to AI Regulation Sep 1, 2026 by CPI Cornell, MIT Win Appeal Bid in $1.7 Billion Financial Aid Case Sep 1, 2026 by CPI Anthropic Strikes $35 Billion Cloud Deal as Nvidia Deepens AI Infrastructure Role Sep 1, 2026 by CPI Antitrust Mix by CPI Antitrust Chronicle® – State Attorneys General Aug 27, 2026 by CPI CPI Talks… with Jonathan Skrmetti, Attorney General of Tennessee Aug 27, 2026 by Jonathan Skrmetti What the Live Nation Jury Instructions Tell Us About California’s Unfair Competition Law Aug 27, 2026 by Henry Hauser, Brent Nakamura, Ashley Kaplan, Brian Wang & Cari Jeffries From Backroom Deals to Public Scrutiny: The Tunney Act’s Past, Present, and Future Aug 27, 2026 by Christina M. Black & Ashley A. Locke Understanding the Fragility of Economic Concentration Through the Principles of Ecology Aug 27, 2026 by Alexandra Spring Subscribe to our newsletter Your email address Thank you for subscribing Submit CPI TV | Subscribe About About Us Editorial Policy Editorial Advisory Board Getting Started Contact Us Partnerships Newsletters Follow CPI © Competition Policy International 2026 Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions