Influencer killed by husband after she accused him of being pedophile on TikTok, police say | The Independent Thank you for registering Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in Please refresh your browser to be logged in Jump to content Open full menu US Edition UK Edition Edición en Español Log in Log in News Sports Culture Lifestyle Money Travel Premium Climate More Swipe for next article News World Americas US Crime News Influencer killed by husband after she accused him of being pedophile on TikTok, police say Jeremiah ‘Shawn’ Duffey was accused of inappropriately touching a 15-year-old girl who played on the basketball team he coached, according to police Graig Graziosi in Washington, D.C. Sunday 26 July 2026 17:44 EDT Bookmark Bookmark popover Removed from bookmarks Close popover Related video: Influencer Allegedly Murdered by Husband After Pedophilia Accusations, 911 Dispatch Audio Reveals The latest headlines from our reporters across the US sent straight to your inbox each weekday Your briefing on the latest headlines from across the US Your briefing on the latest headlines from across the US Email * SIGN UP I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our Privacy notice A social media influencer was shot and killed by her estranged husband after she made a TikTok video accusing him of being a pedophile , according to a police report. Sara Gilson was killed on Thursday at her home in Owasso, Oklahoma, by her husband, Jeremiah Duffey, whose social media handle was "Shawn Duffey," according to local police. On June 10, Gilson filed paperwork to secure an emergency protective order against her husband. She made the request a day after police told her that her husband had been accused of molesting a child . The day before, and approximately a month before Gilson's video, the mother of a 15-year-old girl who played on a basketball team Duffey coached made a police report accusing him of "kissing and fondling her" during a youth basketball event, The Oklahoman reports. Another coach witnessed the incident, intervened, and informed the girl's parents of what happened. open image in gallery Influencer Sara Gilson in a TikTok video she made accusing her husband, Jeremiah "Shawn" Duffey, of being a pedophile. Duffey shot and killed Gilson on July 23, approximately two weeks after she posted the video ( Sara Gilson/TikTok ) “Similar conduct by this coach towards this particular juvenile player was reported to have occurred over an extended period of time, in multiple law enforcement jurisdictions, across multiple states prior to this incident,” police said in a statement. The girl reportedly told her mother that Duffey had sent her inappropriate texts, had invited her to stay with him in his hotel room during a tournament trip, and had offered her money to "keep her quiet" about everything, according to the paper. Duffey reportedly threatened to kill himself and went into hiding after the incident, according to Gilson's protective custody order. The day after Gilson was told about the allegations against her husband, she made a TikTok video in which she refers to her "soon to be ex-husband" as a pedophile. “Preparing for when Netflix drops a documentary about my soon to be ex husband who I just found out is a pedophile,” Gilson wrote in a video caption. The video — which follows a social media trend of people "preparing" for documentaries focused on strange events in their lives — went viral and has been viewed nearly 18 million times. “I wish I was joking. #plottwist #netflix #documentary," she wrote in a caption. Thirteen days after she posted the video, Duffey showed up at her house with a gun. On Thursday night, a 911 dispatcher received a call from Gilson's address in Collinsville in which a woman was heard screaming and "what sounded to be a gunshot," police said. Dispatchers tried to call back, but the call was not answered. open image in gallery Jeremiah 'Shawn' Duffey shot and killed his wife, Sara Gilson, and himself on July 23, almost two weeks after Gilson posted a video accusing him of being a pedophile. A 15-year-old girl on Duffey's basketball team accused him of touching her inappropriately during a youth basketball event ( Jeremiah Duffey/TikTok ) Another 911 call was made moments later from a neighbor's house claiming that his stepfather had shot his mother, police said. When officers arrived at the house, they found both Gilson and Duffey dead from gunshot wounds to the head. Though the incident is still under investigation, police said it appears to have been a murder-suicide. Gilson's son was taken into protective custody and released to a parent who was not involved in the incident, police said. Gilson also had a daughter, but it is unclear if she is an adult or if she was released into custody of the same parent. More about TikTok Oklahoma social media influencer Most popular Popular videos Bulletin Read next Get in touch Contact us Our Products Register Newsletters Donate Today’s Edition Install our app Archive Other publications International editions Independent en Español Independent Arabia Independent Turkish Independent Persian Independent Urdu The Standard Extras Puzzles All topics Free bets offers Latest deals Competitions and offers Independent Advertising Independent Ignite Syndication Working at The Independent Legal Code of conduct and complaints Contributors Cookie policy Donations Terms & Conditions Privacy policy User policies Modern Slavery Statement Thank you for registering Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in Please refresh your browser to be logged in