PC Harper widow 'will not give up' opposing early releases - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions PC Harper widow 'won't give up' early release fight Image source, Martis Media Image caption, Lissie Harper successfully campaigned for harsher sentences for the manslaughter of emergency workers on duty By Dave Gilyeat South of England Published 4 hours ago The widow of a police officer has said she hopes people will share a petition calling for his killers to be denied early release from prison, insisting she "will not give up". PC Andrew Harper, from Wallingford, died in 2019 when he was dragged by a car as three teenagers fled the scene of a Berkshire quad bike theft. Under updated plans to tackle prison overcrowding, two of PC Harper's killers - Jessie Cole and Albert Bowers - would be eligible for release next year. Justice Secretary Alex Norris said the government was trying to avert "a prison capacity crisis". Lissie Harper said: "Hopefully we can make the current government come to their senses and realise we cannot put people like this back on our streets. "Justice should mean justice and serving the sentence given." As of just after 08:30 BST, the petition had over 440,000 signatures. It was started by Aileen O'Connor, chair of Thames Valley Police Federation. Image source, Martis Media Image caption, Police officer Andrew Harper suffered fatal injuries while on duty in 2019 Cole and Bowers were each sentenced to 13 years for manslaughter in 2020, and will become eligible for release after serving half of their sentences. The driver of the vehicle, Henry Long, received a 16-year sentence and will not be eligible. On Monday, the government announced revised plans that would exclude prisoners who had committed rape, grooming, and serious child sex offences from an early release scheme for England and Wales. But people guilty of manslaughter are still eligible for earlier release. O'Connor told the BBC the news was "having a huge impact on morale". She added: "Lissie Harper, [PC Harper's] parents, his brother, his family, his close friends - they are serving the life sentence of not having Andrew Harper here today fulfilling his best potential for his life." Image caption, Aileen O'Connor is chair of the Thames Valley Police Federation In the wake of PC Harper's death, Lissie Harper campaigned for harsher sentences for the manslaughter of emergency workers on duty. Harper's Law was among the new measures in the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act. It means that, if convicted today, his killers would not be eligible for the early release scheme. In a statement, Lissie said: "Seven years later, we are now faced with a secondary gut punch that is coming from our own government. "The sentences Andrew's killers received were pitiful - and the fact we are hearing these absurd reasons for early release like prisons being too full is disgraceful and disgusting. "The people making these decisions should be utterly ashamed of themselves." 'Prison crisis' The government said it was trying to avoid running out of prison spaces as soon as October this year. The justice secretary said about 1,000 prisoners would now not be released early following the revision to the scheme. "If we drew it any wider we would have a prison capacity crisis," Alex Norris said. Prisoners released on licence, he said, would be subject to "very significant controls on their lives" and victims would be consulted. But Olivia Bailey, the Labour MP for the Reading and Mid West constituency, said: "PC Harper's killers should not be eligible for early release, and I am deeply disappointed that the government have not exempted them from the early release scheme following their review. "I will continue to do whatever I can to challenge this decision." Get in touch Your Voice Contact form Contact form Related topics Wallingford Berkshire More on this story 'Anger' PC's killers still eligible for early release Published 1 day ago Prison overcrowding crisis limits ability to cut early releases, minister says Published 1 day ago PC Harper's widow criticises early prisoner release plan as Burnham to review scheme Published 22 July Family anger at possible early release of PC's killers Published 22 July Related internet links Thames Valley Police Thames Valley Police Federation The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:49 Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales. 00:00:49, play video Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales 0:59 The city closing down streets so children can play. 00:00:59, play video The city closing down streets so children can play 1:23 The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII. 00:01:23, play video The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII 0:37 Crispy butter beans with whipped feta. 00:00:37, play video Crispy butter beans with whipped feta 0:57 Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites. 00:00:57, play video Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens Top stories Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at Army teen college Published 4 hours ago Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns Published 3 hours ago Live . Fifa latest: Infantino remains president after tumultuous period 3828 viewing 3.8k viewing More to explore Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear in the office? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Rihanna is 'in the studio', says partner A$AP Rocky Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Families' anger at jailed funeral boss's apology letter Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Love shouldn't feel like fear How hydrated do you really need to be? Melvin Odoom on the MiniDiscs he can't throw away The origin story of the first Comic Con Most read 1 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 2 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at Army teen college 3 Meta becomes latest firm to say its AI hacked another company 4 Why phones on loudspeaker may become just another noise 5 Families' anger at jailed funeral boss's apology letter 6 Iran says deal with Oman on Strait of Hormuz is in final stages 7 Car washes and vape shops can still sponsor skilled foreign workers despite visa changes 8 'Plagiarism row professor resigns' and 'West End stab rampage' 9 The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon 10 Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear in the office? BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.