Employers unexpectedly cut 23,000 jobs as labor market wilts : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Employers unexpectedly cut 23,000 jobs as labor market wilts U.S. employers cut 23,000 jobs in July, and job gains for the two previous months were weaker than initially reported, according to a report Friday from the Labor Department. Economy Employers unexpectedly cut 23,000 jobs in a sign of a wilting labor market August 7, 2026 9:10 AM ET Scott Horsley U.S. economy unexpectedly loses 23,000 jobs in July Listen · 3:29 3-Minute Listen Playlist Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5924786/nx-s1-9879044" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> The U.S. labor market softened in July as employers cut 23,000 jobs. Construction companies and factories continued to add workers, but retailers and restaurants shed jobs. Joe Raedle/Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Joe Raedle/Getty Images The U.S. job market unexpectedly stalled in July. A report Friday from the Labor Department shows that employers cut 23,000 jobs last month, and job gains for May and June were revised sharply lower. The unemployment rate dipped to 4.1%, but only because more than 260,000 people dropped out of the workforce. It was the second month in a row that the monthly jobs tally came in weaker than forecasters had expected. "We are increasingly hearing from workers that they are anxious about their job security and they are frustrated by the fact that they are stuck in roles that are not necessarily good for them," said Daniel Zhao, chief economist at the job search website Glassdoor. "And that's on top of workers who are not in a job right now and feel frozen out of the job market." Sponsor Message Glassdoor's worker confidence index slumped in July to a record low. The Fed's job gets harder Restaurants and retailers cut thousands of jobs last month, and local government also saw large job losses. Healthcare continued to add workers, but at a more modest pace than earlier in the year. The softening job market may complicate the Federal Reserve's job, since it's also battling stubborn inflation. The Fed may be more cautious about raising interest rates at a time when the labor market appears less stable. For people who are working, average wages have risen 3.2% in the last 12 months. That's likely not enough to keep pace with inflation, however, so workers' paychecks don't stretch as far as they used to. "Part of the reason that workers are feeling bad about today's job market," Zhao says, is that "a lot of those wage gains have been eaten up by rising energy prices." Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Family Amid cost of living stress, many parents are supporting children well into adulthood National Trump signs new orders targeting birthright citizenship, weeks after Supreme Court ruling Global Health A new vaccine could vanquish a major cause of deadly diarrheal disease Iran aims to ban U.S. and Israeli ships from Strait of Hormuz and charge others a toll Technology Kalshi and Polymarket bets on clinical trials criticized as 'ghastly' Politics Senate passes Russia sanctions bill that was long championed by Lindsey Graham More Stories From NPR Planet Money Older workers aren’t retiring. Should they be forced to? Economy Trump renews push to fire Fed Governor Lisa Cook The Indicator from Planet Money I'm just here for the health benefits Family Amid cost of living stress, many parents are supporting children well into adulthood The Indicator from Planet Money Following the Chipotle playbook for the cyclospora crisis Planet Money Sand heists and property rights in the Caribbean (Summer School) Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Shots - Health News Take The ACE Quiz — And Learn What It Does And Doesn't Mean Politics Senate votes to confirm Todd Blanche as attorney general Politics Another court blocks White House ballroom work, teeing up a Supreme Court review Up First Newsletter Trump targets birthright citizenship. And, Iran aims to ban U.S. from Strait of Hormuz Real Talk With a Doc Everyone's talking about hormone therapy for menopause. Should I be on it? Movie Reviews The new movie about Anthony Bourdain is none of the things you fear it could be NPR Editors' Picks Elections Data centers are a political issue crossing party lines, driving voters to candidates The Ripple Effect How Jim James and Jeff Tweedy learned to love the Grateful Dead Politics Senate passes Russia sanctions bill that was long championed by Lindsey Graham The Americas Colombia's new president vows to remake the country — and challenge rebel groups Music Can Role Model move past his viral moment by leaning into authenticity? Global Health A new vaccine could vanquish a major cause of deadly diarrheal disease Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices