Drone carrying explosives found at Leipzig airport in Germany - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat World Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East Drone carrying explosives found at German airport, police say Image source, Jens Schlueter/Getty Images Image caption, A special robot was sent to remove the detonator from the device By Bethany Bell BBC correspondent , Reporting from Leipzig Published 5 August 2026, 13:48 BST Updated 2 hours ago A drone carrying an explosive device has been found at a German airport, police say. A robot was deployed at Leipzig/Halle Airport after the device was spotted by an employee near Ukrainian cargo planes overnight, according to Saxony police. A second unidentified object also collided with a cargo aircraft near the same airport. It landed in Hanover with minor damage. Germany's interior minister said the incidents showed a "new level of threat". German airports are on high alert following several unauthorised drone flights in recent months over military bases, airports, energy terminals, seaports and logistics companies. Police have warned of a potential Russian involvement which Moscow has denied. Leipzig/Halle Airport in eastern Germany is used by the Germany military and Nato allies for the transport of military goods and also serves as a base for Ukraine's Antonov Airlines - which carry most of the country's aerial cargo. It is also a major hub for the logistics group, DHL. A police spokesman told the BBC that the explosive-laden object had been spotted close to parked Antonov planes. The detonator was removed from the explosive device. Police later carried out a controlled explosion. Flights on the northern runway resumed at 01:55 (23:55 GMT on Tuesday). The southern runway remains closed. "All of this does not point to an amateurish approach. We are talking about a professional, hybrid threat scenario that we will continue to address," German Interior Minister Alexander Dobrindt said. He did not name any suspects, but suggested the investigation may point to a possible "competition" that "may also involve foreign powers". Figure caption, Watch: Robot deployed to inspect device at German airport Ukraine's Ambassador to Germany Oleksii Makeiev told Welt TV: "Who else could it be but Russia?" Russia has not commented. Similar incidents with suspicious drones in Germany have only happened since Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, Peter R Neumann, a professor of Security Studies at King's College London, said on X. "Since last night, the drone war has reached Germany. And it exposes a weakness that we've known about for years," he said. In July 2024 a parcel burst into flames on the ground at Leipzig/Halle Airport before it could be loaded onto a DHL cargo plane, one of a series of parcel fires that targeted the UK and EU countries. There are suspicions it could have been sabotage linked to Moscow. The parcels had contained explosive devices that were set off by electronic timers hidden in vibrating massage pillows, according to authorities. Russia has denied any involvement in those incidents. Last year a Chinese woman was convicted for passing on information about flight schedules and cargo movements at Leipzig/Halle Airport to a man spying for Beijing. Related topics Germany Drones Aviation safety War in Ukraine The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia 0:50 Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea. 00:00:50, play video Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea 1:01 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller. 00:01:01, play video 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:49 Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales. 00:00:49, play video Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales 0:59 The city closing down streets so children can play. 00:00:59, play video The city closing down streets so children can play 1:23 The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII. 00:01:23, play video The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII 1:30 What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK. 00:01:30, play video What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK 0:37 Crispy butter beans with whipped feta. 00:00:37, play video Crispy butter beans with whipped feta 0:57 Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites. 00:00:57, play video Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport Top stories Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate Published 1 hour ago Infantino remains Fifa president after executive meeting Published 27 minutes ago Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London Published 5 hours ago More to explore The cost of being single – and how friends are teaming up to beat it From flip flops to fisherman's sandals: How to look after your feet this summer 'My grandmother subjected my baby to female genital mutilation behind my back' 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' Kate Nash on Irish history, heritage and covering Sinéad O'Connor There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media 'This year has been the worst for my heat anxiety' Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Love shouldn't feel like fear How hydrated do you really need to be? Melvin Odoom on the MiniDiscs he can't throw away The origin story of the first Comic Con Most read 1 Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London 2 University of Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 3 El-Sayed's victory sends tremors through Democratic Party 4 See the Sun like never before with most detailed images yet 5 Iran says it has agreed Strait of Hormuz shipping route with Oman 6 Family 'devastated' by death of girl, 9, as man charged with murder 7 Student loan repayment rates an 'unsustainable burden', chancellor told 8 Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate 9 Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England 10 Apology after carer fed dog food to elderly woman by mistake BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.