Airbnb (ABNB) Q2 earnings report Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech Airbnb stock soars 9% on earnings and revenue beat, strong guidance for third quarter Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 5:06 PM EDT Updated Thu, Aug 6 2026 6:01 PM EDT Ari Levy @levynews WATCH LIVE Key Points Airbnb's results exceeded estimates for the second quarter, with revenue climbing 17% from a year earlier. The company also issued a forecast that beat expectations. Airbnb said it's seeing strong demand "across all regions," with particularly high growth in Latin America. In this article ABNB Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Airbnb CEO Brian Chesky during the Airbnb annual product event in San Francisco, California, May 20, 2026. David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty Images Airbnb reported second-quarter results that topped analysts' estimates and issued a better-than-expected forecast for the current period, citing strong demand "across all regions." The stock jumped 9% in extended trading on Thursday. Here's how the company did compared with LSEG's consensus of analyst estimates: Earnings per share: $1.37 vs. $1.25 expected Revenue: $3.61 billion vs. $3.58 billion expected Revenue climbed 17% from $3.1 billion a year earlier, Airbnb said in a statement. Net income increased to $816 million from $642 million, or $1.03 per share, a year ago. For the current period, Airbnb said it expects revenue of between $4.69 billion and $4.77 billion, while analysts had been projecting sales of $4.61 billion, according to LSEG. At the midpoint of the range, year-over-year revenue growth would be about 14%. Airbnb said that in the U.S. and Canada region and in the area that includes Europe and the Middle East, bookings growth was in the high single digits. For Asia-Pacific, growth was in the high teens, while the Latin America business saw bookings growth of about 20%. The company highlighted particular strength in Brazil and Mexico, but said, "Overall, we continue to observe market share gains broadly across Latin America, demonstrating the success of our expansion strategy within this region." Free cash flow jumped 30% to $1.25 billion from $962 million a year earlier, Airbnb said. watch now VIDEO 14:31 14:31 Watch CNBC's full interview with Airbnb CEO Brian Chesky News Videos Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by