Shaq: Caitlin Clark facing a rite of passage in WNBA Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Sign up today for the CNBC Sport Newsletter Valuations Leagues Partnerships Media Newsletter Sign-Up Sport Podcast Events CNBC Sport Shaquille O'Neal says WNBA players' treatment of Caitlin Clark is a rite of passage Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 8:00 AM EDT Jessica Golden @JGolden5 WATCH LIVE Key Points Shaquille O'Neal said WNBA players' treatment of Caitlin Clark is a rite of passage that all top athletes face. Harsh fouls against Clark and WNBA officiating have fueled a national debate, with some lawmakers demanding accountability from the league. Despite the physical play, Clark continues to make history becoming the fastest player to reach 1,000 points, 250 rebounds and 250 assists. Caitlin Clark of the Indiana Fever and Shaquille O'Neal. Mike Lawrence | National Basketball Association | Rob Kim | Getty Images NBA great Shaquille O'Neal told CNBC he thinks Caitlin Clark is facing a rite of passage that "all the greats went through" as the Indiana Fever guard navigates her third season in the WNBA. "Once she passes through that, the league will belong to her," O'Neal said during a CNBC Sport interview on the set of his show, "Dunkman." Clark has been the target of some harsh fouls that include hip checks, eye pokes and a recent blow to the throat. That, combined with league officiating, has spurred national debate and even prompted some lawmakers to seek "accountability" from the league for its handling of behavior against Clark. O'Neal said he experienced similar treatment during his playing days and that he watched the same take place with basketball legends such as Michael Jordan, Kobe Bryant, LeBron James and Magic Johnson and with boxer Muhammad Ali. "All the greats have to go through what we call rites of passage. She's a fabulous player, but we're not giving you anything, ever. You have to earn it," O'Neal said. "So for her, she needs to toughen up, take those licks, and show them that, 'These licks don't bother me.'" Three-time WNBA champion Diana Taurasi, who played 20 seasons in the league, recently disputed the idea that the game has become more physical. "If you think the game is physical now, go back and watch the girls' Finals 15 [or] 16 years ago," she said, speaking at the CNBC Sport x Boardroom Game Plan Summit last month. The physical play against Clark intensified on June 24, with a hit to the throat from Phoenix Mercury forward Alyssa Thomas. No foul was called on the play, but following widespread criticism, the league reviewed the play and Thomas received a one-game suspension for "recklessly making contact with her fist to the throat area." On July 3, Clark addressed the incident, saying the "reffing needs to be better" and the "league's just gotta do better protecting players." "Ultimately, the issues around Caitlin Clark are not largely about officiating," NBA Commissioner Adam Silver said at the July Game Plan event. "She's become a bit of a political football in this country, and I think that's incredibly unfair to her." O'Neal said that Clark has to continue to prove herself to the other players in the league. "There's a lot of other girls with similar skills, who get no play, who get no mention, and there's jealousy – professional jealousy," he said. The three-time All-Star has already become the fastest player to hit 1,000 points, 250 rebounds and 250 assists — in just 54 career games, breaking Taurasi's previous record of 62 games. On July 17, she scored a career-high 45 points against the Seattle Storm. "Keep doing that, and the rites of passage will start to open up, and they will invite you in and give you the throne," O'Neal said. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. More In CNBC Sport Fox advertising, streaming service Tubi get boost from World Cup Lillian Rizzo an hour ago Fox won't renegotiate NFL media rights before current deal expires, CEO Lachlan Murdoch says Alex Sherman an hour ago Tanger CEO says World Cup drove up traffic, sales this summer Laya Neelakandan Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by