DOGE's "wall of receipts" riddled with inaccuracies and unsubstantiated claims, congressional watchdog says - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Politics DOGE's "wall of receipts" riddled with inaccuracies and unsubstantiated claims, congressional watchdog says By Kathryn Watson Kathryn Watson Politics Reporter Kathryn Watson is a politics reporter for CBS News Digital, based in Washington, D.C. Read Full Bio Kathryn Watson August 6, 2026 / 11:56 AM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Washington — The Department of Government Efficiency's infamous "Wall of Receipts" listing billions of dollars DOGE said it saved was riddled with inaccuracies and unsubstantiated claims, a congressional watchdog found. A Government Accountability Office report released Thursday confirmed previous reporting from CBS News and other news outlets that found the DOGE team's updating "Wall of Receipts" overstated how much it was saving taxpayers by billions of dollars. As of July 7, 2026, GAO found that $110 billion in savings DOGE claimed from slashing federal contracts, leases and grants displayed savings estimates that were incorrect or lacked supporting evidence. For instance, GAO found that 108 of the 264 leases DOGE said it terminated were already in the process of being eliminated before DOGE was established by President Trump in January 2025. In another case, GAO said DOGE reported it saved $1.7 billion by identifying a Pentagon Defense Health Agency IT contract to terminate, but it never followed through on either terminating or slashing the funding. The GAO probe, requested by Democratic Sens. Richard Blumenthal and Gary Peters, covered contracts, grants and leases DOGE listed from Jan. 20, 2025, through July 7, 2026. DOGE was launched by Elon Musk soon after President Trump took office, and he oversaw and heavily influenced DOGE in its early months. In late May, he left government to return to his companies. Many of the itemized so-called savings were posted to DOGE's account on Musk's social media platform X , which has 4.7 million followers. "Everyone supports rooting out waste, fraud, and abuse in the federal government, but DOGE was a slapdash and deceptive effort that misled the American people while doing real damage to the government's ability to serve them," Peters said in a statement Thursday. "Elon Musk and the Trump administration claimed billions of dollars in savings it could not substantiate, took credit for work already underway, and refused to show its work, all while putting Americans' sensitive data at risk and hollowing out critical agencies." The congressional watchdog noted that information like the Wall of Receipts "can have significant value," but went on to say that it would be more useful to policymakers and the public if DOGE provided more information about how it calculated savings and disclosed data limitations. GAO criticized DOGE for lack of transparency and its failure to use its own stated methodology in calculations of the "majority of savings associated with the contracts reported as terminated." "For grants, DOGE did not provide sufficient information to verify the method used to calculate 96 percent of DOGE-reported savings," GAO said. "While the Wall of Receipts includes some information about the data and sources underlying reported savings, it does not sufficiently disclose limitations affecting data quality," GAO said. It recommended DOGE "prominently" display data quality issues and limitations on the Wall of Receipts. CBS News previously identified other issues with DOGE's reporting, as well. DOGE stopped publishing details of canceled U.S. Agency for International Development contracts due to what was described as "legal reasons." And a CBS News review of three of the largest cuts DOGE claimed by August 2025 indicated the savings from those contracts were less than 3% of what DOGE said they were. DOGE concluded its operations on July 4, although the Trump administration has long said agency heads would work to save taxpayers money. GAO said DOGE "did not respond to GAO's request for information or interviews." Daniel Ruetenik contributed to this report. More from CBS News Trump denies U.S. running low on some munitions, says vast resupplies being made Pirro brought box of evidence to show Trump what caused Reflecting Pool damage Where the Trump administration's lawsuits seeking voter data stand Trump issues new executive orders aimed at birthright citizenship Go deeper with The Free Press Elon Musk Left DOGE, but Democrats Want to Close the ‘Self-Dealing’ Loophole The ‘Gay’ Attacks on Lindsey Graham Are All About Politics In: Elon Musk Department of Government Efficiency Donald Trump © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. DOGE shuts down after controversial run DOGE shuts down after controversial run with Elon Musk 02:14 DOGE shuts down after controversial run with Elon Musk (02:14) Trump denies U.S. running low on some munitions, says vast resupplies being made Pirro brought box of evidence to show Trump what caused Reflecting Pool damage Where the Trump administration's lawsuits seeking voter data stand Elon Musk Left DOGE, but Democrats Want to Close the ‘Self-Dealing’ Loophole Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue