Thailand high school shooting leaves at least 6 dead after teen suspect kills his grandparents, officials say - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Crime Thailand high school shooting leaves at least 6 dead after teen suspect kills his grandparents, officials say Updated on: August 7, 2026 / 5:59 AM EDT / CBS/AFP Add CBS News on Google Nonthaburi, Thailand — A teenager described as "troubled" by a classmate killed his grandparents before gunning down at least six more people at a school in Thailand on Friday, police said. First he shot his grandparents, using his grandfather's handgun, then went to a high school in Nonthaburi province, outside Bangkok, and killed three teachers and three students, national police said in a statement. Thailand Prime Minister Anutin Charnvirakul said the suspect was "under stress" and had planned the assault. "Police interrogated his close friend who said the suspect had been under stress" Anutin told reporters outside the school. "His actions also suggested that he had clearly planned (the shooting)." Dozens of police and emergency responders gathered outside the cordoned-off Debsirin Nonthaburi School on Friday while parents waited to pick up their children and tearful students and staff comforted each other outside. "I was afraid that I would die, and I was scared that I wouldn't be able to pursue my dreams," said Pawarisa Maylissa, a 12-th grade student who hopes to attend medical school. "I heard many gunshots very loudly because it seemed the suspect was on the floor directly above us. I could even hear bullets hitting the floor." Fifteen injured students weren't struck by gunfire but were hurt as they were trying to flee, Deputy Interior Minister Polapee Suwunchwee told local broadcaster Thai PBS. Police later said 23 people were injured. The shooter was identified by local media as a teenage student of the school, and police said he died during the incident. Some media reports said police officers had shot and killed him while others said he had died by suicide. The Reuters news agency, citing police, reported that the shooter, who was 14 years old, fired at least 26 bullets and was found with 34 more rounds. An ambulance drives toward Debsirin Nonthaburi School in Nonthaburi province, north of Bangkok, Thailand following a shooting there on August 7, 2026. Valeria Mongelli / Anadolu via Getty Images A "troubled kid" Purin Khumchoo, 17, said he was among the students who'd nearly been shot. "He was my junior, but I had a feeling that he was a troubled kid. My group of friends who knew him said he was interested in the FBI and guns, and that he was bullied by many other students," Purin told AFP outside the school. "When I saw him aiming the gun at me, I thought he looked very professional, as if he had been trained for a long time." Photos published by local media show the suspect wearing a purple school uniform and carrying a black cross-body bag, with several bullet casings visible on the ground. An AFP journalist saw a dozen mental health workers arriving at the school, where traffic was nearly at a standstill. Education Minister Prasert Jantararuangtong pledged to provide mental health assistance to students and ramp up security measures at educational institutions. "We haven't checked whether students have brought weapons to school. Our level of security is not that tight," he told reporters at the school. Thongchai Thanakat, a motorcycle-taxi driver who's worked in the area for 20 years, said he was waiting to pick up passengers outside the school when he heard more than 10 gunshots and saw a stream of students rushing out. "Some of them weren't even wearing shoes," he told AFP. "I feel very bad for one student whose body I saw after he was shot right through his head. It was very emotional for me." A "terrible incident" Anutin, the prime minister, said the shooting "should never have happened." "It's such a terrible incident," he told reporters at Bangkok's Government House. "How could this happen in our country?" Thailand has one of the highest rates of gun ownership in the region, with an estimsted 10 million firearms in circulation — one for every seven inhabitants. Past promises of tightened gun laws haven't prevented repeated shootings. Anutin told reporters he would discuss gun control with the country's police chief. Earlier Thai school shootings Thai police shot and arrested a teenager who opened fire at a school in the south of the country in February, killing the principal and wounding two students. The teen had used a police officer's weapon in the shooting. A local police chief said at the time that the suspect was hospitalized for psychiatric treatment in December and had been discharged. The teen stabbed a police officer with a knife and stole his weapon -- a 9mm pistol -- just before the incident, then used it to carry out the attack. In 2022, an ex-policeman armed with a gun and knife stormed into a nursery in the country's north and murdered 24 children and 12 adults in one of Thailand's deadliest massacres. More from CBS News Russian drone factory director seriously injured in car explosion Idaho In-N-Out shooting victims remembered by loved ones: "She lit up a room" FBI not conducting civil rights probe into ICE shooting in Maine, sources say Entrepreneurship is booming in the U.S. Gen Zers are leading the way. Go deeper with The Free Press Rod Dreher: What the San Diego Mosque Shooters Believed The Evil of the San Diego Mosque Shooting In: Thailand Shooting School Shooting © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Agence France-Presse contributed to this report. CBS News Live CBS News 24/7 Live CBS News 24/7 Russian drone factory director seriously injured in car explosion Idaho In-N-Out shooting victims remembered by loved ones: "She lit up a room" FBI not conducting civil rights probe into ICE shooting in Maine, sources say Rod Dreher: What the San Diego Mosque Shooters Believed Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue