How much of a challenge are wildfires to Europe? | Climate Crisis News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up Video Duration 27 minutes 30 seconds 27:30 Inside Story How much of a challenge are wildfires to Europe? Rapidly spreading blazes are scorching the continent Read more Europe is still burning. From Spain to France, and from Italy to Greece, wildfires are destroying everything in their path. Crews work around the clock to contain them, but the fight is far from over. Rising temperatures and prolonged droughts create ideal conditions for the flames to spread rapidly and burn more intensely. Scientists and environmentalists say extreme weather events like this should be a wake-up call for European policymakers – a sign of the challenges that lie ahead. So, how catastrophic could the situation become before the fires are brought under control? Presenter: Mohammed Jamjoom Guests: Palaiologos Palaiologou – Associate professor of Forest Protection at the Agricultural University of Athens Marta Yebra – Director of the Bushfire Research Centre of Excellence at Australian National University Carlo Buontempo – Director of the Copernicus Climate Change Service Published On 4 Aug 2026 4 Aug 2026 Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google More from the same show Will Israel withdraw from Gaza if Hamas disarms? Video Duration 28 minutes 30 seconds 28:30 Is Washington dictating the agenda for talks in Venezuela? Video Duration 28 minutes 00 seconds 28:00 Is criticism of Spain on border management legitimate or politics? Video Duration 27 minutes 10 seconds 27:10 Does FIFA need private investment? Video Duration 27 minutes 40 seconds 27:40 Will Saudi Arabia be dragged further into the war in Iran? Video Duration 27 minutes 42 seconds 27:42 How is Islamabad handling crisis in Pakistan-administered Kashmir? Video Duration 27 minutes 55 seconds 27:55 What will it take to stop the conflict in Sudan? Video Duration 28 minutes 00 seconds 28:00 About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network