Ukraine hits one of Russia’s biggest oil refineries in drone attack Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Politics & Policy Ukraine’s military hits one of Russia’s biggest oil refineries in long-range drone attack Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 5:07 AM EDT Updated 4 Hours Ago Sam Meredith @in/samuelmeredith @smeredith19 WATCH LIVE Key Points Ukraine's military on Thursday struck two Russian oil refineries in long-range drone attacks as Kyiv continues to target energy infrastructure. Zelenskyy said Ukraine's armed forces struck the Bashneft-Novoil refinery in Bashkortostan and the Slavneft-Yanos refinery in the Yaroslavl region. The Slavneft-Yanos facility in Yaroslavl, which is situated hundreds of miles from the Ukraine border, is one of Russia's biggest oil refineries. People queue to refuel their cars at a Gazpromneft petrol station in Yaroslavl on July 15, 2026. Russia -- one of the world's largest oil producers -- has introduced a swath of restrictions on petrol sales across the country, as Ukrainian strikes on its refineries, depots and logistics crimp domestic supply. Igor Ivanko | Afp | Getty Images Ukraine's military on Thursday struck two Russian oil refineries hundreds of miles from its border, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said, as Kyiv continues to target the country's energy infrastructure . Ukraine's armed forces struck the Bashneft-Novoil refinery in Bashkortostan and the Slavneft-Yanos refinery in the Yaroslavl region, Zelenskyy said. In a post on social media, Zelenskyy said Ukraine's long-range sanctions had "once again worked to limit Russia's oil revenues, which it uses to finance the war and the killing of Ukrainians." The Slavneft-Yanos facility in Yaroslavl, which is situated hundreds of miles from the Ukraine border and about 170 miles (274 kilometers) northeast of Moscow, is one of Russia's biggest oil refineries. It has previously been targeted by Ukraine's military throughout the conflict. The facility employs more than 3,500 people and makes about 15 million tons of crude oil each year, according to its website . Its products include fuel for cars, jet fuel and a wide range of oils. Mikhail Evraev, governor of the Yaroslavl region, said on Thursday that the region had faced its largest-ever drone attack, with air defense and electronic warfare destroying 93 drones. "Falling debris hit the oil refinery's storage tanks. Emergency services are working to extinguish the fire," Evraev said via Telegram . There were no casualties, but four people sustained injuries, he added. Read more 'Winter is coming': Ukraine fears its toughest test since Russia's full-scale invasion Russian attack kills at least 17 in Kyiv as Ukraine hammers more Wildberries warehouses Ukraine has found a new pressure point in Russia’s wartime economy Alongside mid- and long-range drone attacks on energy infrastructure, Ukraine has stepped up attacks on Russia's Amazon-style retail giant Wildberries in recent weeks, seeking to squeeze a critical piece of Russia's consumer economy and create a new pressure point for President Vladimir Putin . Russian forces, meanwhile, have increased the number of missile strikes on Ukrainian cities, likely seeking to exploit Kyiv's shortage of ballistic missile interceptors. Ukraine's Zelenskyy also said the country's armed forces had responded to Russian attacks on ships in the Black Sea by striking two military patrol boats and shadow fleet vessels. One person was killed and three others were injured in a Russian attack on a foreign-flagged ship loaded with Ukrainian wheat in the Black Sea, according to Odesa regional governor Oleh Kiper. A fire broke out on the Guinea-Bissau-flagged ship, Kiper said via Telegram on Thursday, and the crew was evacuated. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by