Met Police boss admits mistake over Jason Arday plagiarism row - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat UK England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Isle of Man Guernsey Jersey Local News Met Police boss admits mistake over plagiarism row Figure caption, Watch: Why has Cambridge's youngest black professor resigned? By André Rhoden-Paul Published 6 August 2026, 16:28 BST Updated 23 minutes ago The head of the Metropolitan Police has said his force should not have investigated a journalist who was looking into plagiarism claims about a University of Cambridge professor. Met Police Commissioner Sir Mark Rowley said officers "dropped the ball" when they looked into a complaint made against journalist Jack Grove over his attempts to contact Prof Jason Arday. Sir Mark told broadcaster LBC the complaint should have been "screened out earlier on as not requiring investigation". Arday, who resigned from Cambridge on Wednesday, has has admitted errors in his work, but denied plagiarism. Serious questions for Cambridge after professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns Published 6 hours ago Times Higher Education (THE) reporter Grove said he had been investigating allegations Arday had plagiarised parts of his PhD, and contacted him in 2025 to offer him the right of reply. "In early February I received a call from a Met police officer saying that a complaint had been raised against me by someone and Professor Arday was very distressed and I shouldn't contact him again," Grove told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "It was a complete shock. Apparently it was for harassment but I hadn't contacted him for four months and then maybe I think I've only sent three or four emails to him in total." The Met closed its inquiries into the case. Sir Mark told LBC: "We dropped the ball on that one, let's not beat around the bush. "A report came in of harassment or some crime like that, it should have been screened out as not requiring investigation... "We shouldn't have made that call to him [Grove] and said that." The University of Cambridge said on Tuesday it had begun an investigation into Arday, who became the institution's youngest black professor in 2023, following "new information" about his "academic qualifications and honorary appointments". In a statement published by campaign group Good Law Project on Wednesday, Arday said the "relentless accusations, speculation and public commentary have taken a profound toll on me and on those I love". "I no longer wish to feel as though I am living under a constant spotlight, where every aspect of my life is subject to public examination and judgement," he said. Speaking of his decision to step down he added it should not "be mistaken for an acceptance of the narratives that have surrounded me". His resignation followed a series of media reports alleging he plagiarised parts of his PhD thesis completed at Liverpool John Moores University (LJMU) and other research. LJMU - which awarded his PhD in 2015 - had investigated the allegations that were made last year, but did not uphold the charges. The Times reported Arday defended himself by arguing that he had not received adequate supervision during his PhD given his autism and "learning disabilities". In an interview with the Times, Arday said that he could not afford a proofreader to catch mistakes when he started out in academia. Further questions were raised in the press about the truth of other claims, including Arday saying he ran 600 miles in six days and that he raised £5.5m for charity. Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Jesus College, Cambridge, where Arday was a fellow, also said it was launching its own process The controversy has attracted a range of opinions, including within the academic community. Kathleen Stock, a philosopher and former professor at Sussex University, said universities were "desperate for good press". "The elite universities like Cambridge and Oxford had a particular problem because they are perceived to be quite harsh places, quite unkind places and very white places. And they wanted to change that impression," she told the Today programme. Stock, who resigned her post in 2021 after a row over freedom of speech and her views on gender identity, said this was a "watershed" moment. But Kehinde Andrews, who was previously professor of black studies at Birmingham City University, said the idea that black academics had an advantage because of their racial background was not true. He told the BBC's Today programme: "What happens to black academics is we're not in an area where it's great and the left wing universities love us and they're trying to promote us. "What happens is you work at a place for 12 years, you're very, very successful, and then you get made redundant. That's the experience of black academics." Related topics Metropolitan Police Service More on this story Serious questions for Cambridge after professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns Published 6 hours ago Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns Published 15 hours ago Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row defends his work Published 5 days ago The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens 1:03 Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show. 00:01:03, play video Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show 0:58 Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:58 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns. 00:00:58, play video Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:19 England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations. 00:01:19, play video England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya Top stories Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption Published 16 minutes ago Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases Published 8 hours ago Uefa says boycott may still go ahead as FA withdraws Infantino support Published 5 hours ago More to explore The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Steve the featherless parrot gets his colour back Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives Why aren't more women getting into padel? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 Arrests in Thetford as disorder continues for third night 2 Artificial Intelligence used to design brand new viruses 3 Met Police boss admits mistake over plagiarism row 4 Amanda Knox defends Fringe comedy show after claims it will 'trivialise violence' 5 South Korea space agency shares Moon images after SpaceX rocket debris crash 6 Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order 7 Former duke chased by alleged stalker, court hears 8 Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption 9 Boxer charged with killing aid worker in Athens after his wife gave police 'key' details 10 Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.