Iran's chief negotiator accuses Trump of 'theater diplomacy' Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Politics & Policy Iran's chief negotiator accuses Trump of 'theater diplomacy' with Hormuz traffic near standstill Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 9:46 PM EDT Updated Fri, Aug 7 2026 10:06 AM EDT Anniek Bao @in/anniek-bao-460a48107/ @anniekbyx WATCH LIVE Key Points Iran's chief negotiator accused U.S. President Donald Trump of staging "theater diplomacy." Saudi Arabia is bracing for "multiple coordinated attacks" by Iraqi militia factions working with Iran-backed Houthis, according to CNN. U.S. and Israeli ships would be barred from the Strait of Hormuz under Iran's draft plan for managing the waterway. In this article @LCO.1 @CL.1 Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Iranian Parliament Speaker Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf speaks at a press conference in Tehran, Iran, Dec. 2, 2025. Shadati | Xinhua News Agency | Getty Images Iran's chief negotiator has accused U.S. President Donald Trump of staging "theater diplomacy," as Washington and Tehran offer conflicting accounts of bilateral engagement aimed at ending their monthslong hostilities. "'Massive attack coming … wait, never mind, they want to negotiate.' That's theater diplomacy on loop," Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, Iran's parliament speaker and top negotiator, wrote in a post on X on Thursday in an apparent gibe at Trump. The remarks came days after Trump called off planned strikes and said the outlines of a deal had already been settled with Tehran. Iranian officials have rejected the claim, saying no talks were underway. The conflict is meanwhile broadening across the region, with Gulf energy infrastructure and key shipping choke points under renewed threat. Saudi Arabia is bracing for "multiple coordinated attacks" by Iraqi militia factions working with Iran-backed Houthis, a Saudi official told CNN . Intelligence reports from Saudi Arabia and regional governments reportedly indicated that the groups planned to strike the kingdom "in the very near future" under the guidance of Iran's Revolutionary Guard. Read more CNBC politics and policy coverage Khanna to introduce ‘Data Center Bill of Rights’ as fight over AI power plants heats up Kids Online Safety Act social media safety bill advances in Senate Trump admin refunds $100 billion in ‘liberation day’ tariffs The warning came a day after the Houthis claimed responsibility for attacks on two Saudi oil tankers in the Gulf of Aden, another critical shipping choke point. Saudi Arabia has come under Houthi missile fire and drone attacks by Iran-backed Iraqi militias in recent weeks. Shipping through the region's two critical choke points has fallen sharply in recent days. Only two vessels transited the Strait of Hormuz on Wednesday, down from eight a day earlier, according to Kpler vessel-tracking data, against a prewar baseline of roughly 130 to 140 daily transits. Traffic through the Bab el-Mandeb Strait collapsed to a single dry bulk carrier, from 20 vessels the previous day. Flows via Hormuz are unlikely to return to prewar levels anytime soon, even after a deal is reached between Oman and Iran for managing traffic via the critical waterway. U.S. and Israeli ships would be barred from the Strait of Hormuz under a draft plan involving Iran and Oman for managing the waterway, Tehran's semiofficial Fars news agency reported Thursday, with restrictions extending to countries that have "caused damage" to Iran, until compensation is paid. Iran also plans to issue penalties of up to 20% of the value of the cargo of those who violate the terms of the agreement, which is currently under review, according to Fars. watch now VIDEO 6:52 06:52 The oil market prices on a very short-term window, says CIBC's Rebecca Babin Squawk Box Oil jumped on signs of Tehran's hardening stance on Hormuz traffic. Brent crude futures for October delivery gained 1.3% to $83.55 a barrel, while September futures for WTI crude rose about 1.1% to $78.17 on Friday, extending losses from a day earlier and reversing an earlier slide driven by brief optimism that a Hormuz deal was days away. Earlier, regional officials said that Iran and Oman were close to finalizing a framework covering all inbound traffic via Iranian territorial waters as well as outbound traffic through a route closer to Oman, though the arrangement would not automatically reopen the waterway. In a Truth Social post on Thursday, Trump pushed back on reports that U.S. munitions stocks have been depleted by the war. "The U.S. has massive amounts of 'munitions,' especially of certain types," he said, vowing to pursue "long-term jail sentences" for leakers. CNN reported later in the day that, in the Oval Office, Trump acknowledged that certain munitions are in "tighter" supply, while insisting less-advanced weapons remain in virtually unlimited supply. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by