More than 170 migrants rescued after boat catches fire in Channel - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat UK England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Isle of Man Guernsey Jersey Local News More than 170 migrants rescued after boat catches fire in Channel Image source, AFP via Getty Images Image caption, The migrants disembarked at the Port de Commerce in Boulogne-sur-Mer, France, following the rescue By Alex Smith and Daniel Sandford , UK correspondent Published 4 August 2026, 11:11 BST Updated 2 hours ago More than 170 migrants have been rescued after the boat they were using to cross the Channel caught fire on Tuesday morning, as the UK government said "all will be returned" to France. The boat was attempting to cross to the UK when its engine caught fire, according to the French maritime prefecture of the Channel and North Sea. It had originally reported 157 migrants were rescued, but has since revised that figure up to 173. All have been taken to Boulogne-sur-Mer in France, with 11 people suffering from minor injuries. French prosecutors have opened an investigation, and an Egyptian national has been taken into policy custody in connection with the incident. Border Security Minister Anna Turley said the incident "shows the dangers of these illegal crossings and the ruthless gangs behind them". "That's why we are bearing down on them," she said. French authorities said the boat left France on Monday night. Overnight "five people on board the vessel required rescue... the remaining people on board refused the assistance offered by the French patrol boats", the French maritime prefecture said. "Determined to reach the United Kingdom, migrants crossing the Channel in small boats refused assistance offered by French emergency service, accepting it only in situations of extreme emergency," it said in a statement. Because of the "structural fragility" of boats used to cross the Channel, it said they decided not to intervene further at that stage. But this morning the engine caught fire and the "vessel's integrity deteriorated very rapidly". Rescue boats went to the scene from France and the UK, including the RNLI Eastbourne lifeboat and the UK Border Force vessels BSC Contender and BSC Courageous. The French maritime prefecture said the operation involved 40 firefighters, 13 police officers, seven interpreters, and a number of medical personnel. It had previously reported that 157 migrants were rescued, but on Tuesday afternoon revised that figure up to 173. On top of the initial five rescued, two French boats rescued 105 migrants and the British boats rescued 63. All of them were taken to Boulogne-sur-Mer for treatment. The total number on the boat broke the previous record of 165 people, who reached the UK late last month in a 42ft (13m) boat, making it the largest single vessel to attempt to cross the Channel carrying migrants. Image source, AFP via Getty Images Image caption, The Argonaute, pictured after docking in Boulogne-sur-Mer, was one of two French ships involved in the rescue A UK government spokesperson said the Border Security Command was alerted to an incident in the Channel this morning "concerning a migrant small boat in distress in French waters". It said British vessels assisted in the operation, adding that so far there have been no fatalities reported. They added that the incident "underlines the terrible dangers of small boat crossings". "We continue to work relentlessly with the French and our partners overseas to prevent these perilous journeys," they said. Click to expand Tap the questions below How many people cross the English Channel in small boats? Between 1 January and 3 August 2026, a total of 14,561 people crossed the English Channel by small boat from France. This was down by 43% on the same period the previous year. These crossings have become the most common way for people to be detected entering the UK illegally since 2020. Nearly all those who arrive by small boat claim asylum. Under international law, this means they are allowed to stay in the country while their asylum application is considered. Small boat arrivals made up 42% of asylum applications between April 2025 to March 2026. Boats that arrived in the UK from 4 August 2025 to 3 August 2026 carried an average of 67 people. This has more than doubled since 2021. Experts say overcrowding in boats makes crossings riskier . At least 84 people died while attempting to cross the Channel in 2024, according to the United Nations (UN). When looking at the scale of small boats crossings, the number of these arrivals is about 5% of the size of total immigration into the UK from January 2025 to December 2025. The government has pledged to “smash the gangs” behind these crossings in order to reduce the numbers. Who is arriving in the UK on small boats? People from Eritrea accounted for 18% of all arrivals from April 2025 to March 2026. In the latest figures covering January 2025 to December 2025, at least 2,000 people who arrived by small boat were found to be potential victims of human trafficking or other forms of modern slavery, according to the Home Office. How else do people stay in the UK without permission? Another 4,535 people were detected entering the UK without permission via other methods including hiding in vehicles, travelling on ferries or through airports from April 2025 to March 2026. This was down by 22% on the same period the previous year. There are also individuals who arrive legally, for example via a work or study visa, and then overstay their limit. The total number of people who live in the UK illegally after arriving legally is not known. See more key stats on hotels, small boats and asylum Shadow home secretary Chris Philp said: "This is why it's so wrong that French police stand by and do nothing while the illegal migrant boats embark – lives are being risked." Reform UK leader Nigel Farage said in a post on X: "We must put a stop to this. Our plan will save lives." Earlier this week, his party said if in government it would deploy the navy to ward off crossings. Political discussions around the UK's policies on illegal migration have resurfaced since tens of thousands of migrants swam into the Spanish exclave of Ceuta on Thursday. The Conservatives have said that Labour has not delivered on its promises on migration, while the Lib Dems said the government should increase efforts to improve relationships with Europe and cut down the asylum backlog. The number of migrants who have arrived in the UK on small boats since Burnham became prime minister a fortnight ago surpassed 2,000 on Saturday. Last Wednesday was the busiest day for crossings so far this year, with 752 migrants arriving in the UK. Most people attempt the crossing in the summer when conditions are better. It's also become the most common way for people to be detected entering the UK illegally. Home Office figures show the number of crossings so far this year are down about 43% compared to this time last year. The number peaked in 2022 and has been on a downward trend ever since. During a visit to Dover on Monday, Prime Minister Burnham pledged his government will be "relentless" in curbing the number of people arriving in the UK on small boats. He said progress had been made in curbing the number of people arriving in the UK on small boats, adding that "people want to see this issue addressed". Burnham said enforcement officers tackling people-smuggling gangs have been doubled on both sides of the Channel, but "a system that offers safe routes for people" needs to be built as well. In April, the UK and France struck a £662m (773m euro) deal aiming to stop illegal migrants from crossing the Channel. The three-year agreement included plans to send riot-trained police to French beaches to tackle violence and "hostile crowds", as well as France deploying millions of pounds of drones and two helicopters as part of a system to intercept people smugglers and illegal migrants. UK ministers have also said about £100m in funding could be redirected or withdrawn after a year if not enough journeys are stopped - but the government has not confirmed what targets the French would have to meet. Related topics English Channel Migration UK immigration More on this story Burnham pledges to be 'relentless' in curbing small boat crossings Published 1 day ago Track UK's latest migration numbers - net migration, visas, asylum and small boats Published 7 hours ago UK and France strike new £662m small boats deal Published 23 April Mega dinghy carries record 165 migrants to UK Published 24 July The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:01 Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack. 00:01:01, play video Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack 0:57 Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites. 00:00:57, play video Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport 1:01 What are the 'luteal uglies'? 00:01:01, play video What are the 'luteal uglies'? 0:59 Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 00:00:59, play video Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 0:40 US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak. 00:00:40, play video US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak 0:35 PC Harper's mother on early release for killers. 00:00:35, play video PC Harper's mother on early release for killers 0:41 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti. 00:00:41, play video 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti 0:54 Why Scotland's exam results come first. 00:00:54, play video Why Scotland's exam results come first 1:06 Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 00:01:06, play video Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 0:39 Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests. 00:00:39, play video Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests 1:09 Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos. 00:01:09, play video Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos 0:25 Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas. 00:00:25, play video Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas 0:45 Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer. 00:00:45, play video Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer 0:55 Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight. 00:00:55, play video Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight 0:27 Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend. 00:00:27, play video Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend 0:59 How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president. 00:00:59, play video How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president 1:57 Are some schools taking discipline too far? 00:01:57, play video Are some schools taking discipline too far? Top stories Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack Published 4 hours ago More than 170 migrants rescued after boat catches fire in Channel Published 2 hours ago Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece Published 2 hours ago More to explore Which area has the best grades? Key takeaways from Scotland's exam results How to avoid the worst of the Italian heat I left my wife and twins behind - why this Nigerian man fled South Africa Breast cancer checks missing most women under 50 who are at risk, says study There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger After three traumatic years at uni, I fear I won't get my dream nursing job Woman has pioneering womb surgery to fix 'miracle' baby with intestines outside its body Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC 'I said maybeeee...' Follow police investigations from the 999 call to conviction The return of the thrilling, award-winning drama about the CIA Tommy and John Fury debate what makes a home Most read 1 Athletes go 'missing' after Commonwealth Games ends 2 Princess Eugenie gives birth to baby girl in Portugal 3 Major search under way for boy, 13, missing at sea 4 Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack 5 Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece 6 Bono, Eddie Vedder and Hozier among mourners at Glen Hansard's funeral 7 Man 'driven insane' by noise admits killing fish 8 Care company fined for running illegal children's homes in legal first 9 Oil prices fall on hopes Strait of Hormuz could reopen 10 Ed Sheeran fined for failing to insure Aston Martin BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.