Mexican influencer shot dead while streaming live on social media | Mexico | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development César Gastélum had nearly 600,000 followers on TikTok and was known for making comedy videos. Photograph: Instagram/cesarselectivo/Reuters View image in fullscreen César Gastélum had nearly 600,000 followers on TikTok and was known for making comedy videos. Photograph: Instagram/cesarselectivo/Reuters Mexico Mexican influencer shot dead while streaming live on social media César Gastélum was filming outside a fast-food outlet in Sinaloa state when he was killed by a motorbike driver Oscar Lopez in Mexico City Wed 5 Aug 2026 13.31 EDT Last modified on Wed 5 Aug 2026 13.48 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google A popular Mexican influencer has been shot dead while doing a live stream on social media outside a restaurant in Sinaloa state, where lethal cartel violence has become widespread. César Gastélum, who had nearly 600,000 followers on TikTok and was known for making comedy videos, was filming with two friends outside a fast-food restaurant in the city of Culiacán. The three were dressed in the bright orange jackets and backpacks of food delivery drivers. A motorcycle with a driver and pillion rider suddenly pulled up beside them and the driver pulled out a gun and shot Gastélum at point-blank range. A security official in Sinaloa confirmed Gastélum’s death to Reuters and said a major security operation was under way. The killing is the latest example of bloodshed in Culiacán, which has become an epicentre of violence as factions of the Sinaloa cartel battle for control of the city. View image in fullscreen Onlookers stand behind a police cordon at the scene of César Gastélum’s killing Photograph: Jesús Bustamante/Reuters Mexico’s security cabinet wrote on X that it was investigating several of Gastélum’s posts, “some of which referred to a faction of a criminal group”. It also said video surveillance footage and other evidence were being analysed to identify and apprehend those responsible. Mexico’s president, Claudia Sheinbaum, said on Wednesday that authorities were investigating the killing and working to identify the killer. In a war in Mexico between cartel factions, influencers become targets Read more “The actual perpetrators, and if applicable the mastermind, must be arrested, and the reason behind this tragic homicide must be uncovered,” she said in her morning press conference. At least 12 social media influencers have been murdered in Culiacán since two factions of the Sinaloa cartel began their battle in September 2024, according to local media . They have also been targeted in Jalisco state. Valeria Márquez, 23, was shot and killed at a beauty salon last year while live-streaming on TikTok, where she had thousands of followers. Authorities announced last week that they had arrested Ramón Ángel Álvarez Ayala, the leader of a criminal cell with links to the Jalisco New Generation cartel, in relation to the killing. They also accused him of ordering and financing the November 2025 assassination of Carlos Manzo , the mayor of Uruapan, the second largest city in Michoacán state, in a killing that shocked the country. Explore more on these topics Mexico Americas news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)