Nato to ‘urgently’ get air defences for Ukraine, as Zelenskyy warns of surge in Russian missile production | Ukraine | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 3 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Rescuers work at the site of a Russian missile strike on a goods storage in Kyiv on Wednesday. Photograph: Sergey Dolzhenko/EPA View image in fullscreen Rescuers work at the site of a Russian missile strike on a goods storage in Kyiv on Wednesday. Photograph: Sergey Dolzhenko/EPA Ukraine Nato to ‘urgently’ get air defences for Ukraine, as Zelenskyy warns of surge in Russian missile production After Ukraine failed to shoot down a single ballistic missile fired by Russia on Wednesday, the president urged allies to increase supplies of Patriot interceptors Guardian staff and agencies Wed 5 Aug 2026 22.00 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 15.42 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Nato is working to get Ukraine the air defences it “urgently needs”, its secretary general has said, after Kyiv failed to shoot down a single Russian missile in an attack on Wednesday, and as Volodymyr Zelenskyy warned that Moscow was seeking to significantly boost missile ⁠production ahead of winter. Speaking at a National Security and Defense Council meeting on winter resilience, the Ukrainian president did not rule out the idea that stalling missile supplies from western allies were “aimed at making Ukraine , so to speak, more willing to compromise” in peace talks with Russia. Ukraine war briefing: Cut-price Patriot among options in desperate search for missile defence Read more After meeting Nato’s Mark Rutte, Zelenskyy said: “It is important to cut through all red tape and make the necessary political decisions. Literally every day, people’s lives here in Ukraine depend on the resolve of our partners in Europe and the United States.” Russia launched 24 ballistic missiles in an overnight attack on Wednesday , killing at least 17 people. Preliminary data from the Ukrainian air force showed its defences shot down 98 of the 115 drones fired by Russia overnight, but none of the ballistic missiles. On Wednesday, Zelenskyy said that in the first half of 2026, supplies of air defence missiles from Ukraine’s allies had fallen to a third of their 2025 level. View image in fullscreen Ukrainian service members view a Patriot air defence system in 2024. Photograph: Valentyn Ogirenko/Reuters The president also warned that Moscow was looking to significantly increase ballistic missile ⁠production as winter neared, when it is expected to renew its campaign against Ukraine’s energy sector. Serhii Beskrestnov, an adviser to Ukraine’s president on the development of defence technology, estimated that Russia was capable of launching 100 ballistic missiles every month to attack logistic ​hubs, industrial facilities, food stores and warehouses. “The war of attrition has entered its next phase,” he said on the Telegram app. Ukraine has been short on US-made Patriot interceptors capable of downing Russian ballistic missiles since the ⁠start of the war. But in recent weeks, an acute shortage has come into focus , with Moscow pummelling Kyiv, on ​average, every three days in July alone. Zelenskyy said the shortage of interceptor missiles was mainly caused by the war in the Middle East. Patriot missile systems are the only system in Ukrainian service able to intercept the Russian Iskander-M, S-400 and Zircon missiles, according to the Ukrainian air force. Russia often combines ballistic missiles with cruise missiles, drones and decoys, forcing defenders to track many threats and ration scarce interceptors, but Ukraine says it has too few batteries and interceptors to properly protect itself. View image in fullscreen Ukrainian firefighters work to put out a fire following a massive Russian ballistic missile and drone strike on Kyiv. Photograph: Tetiana Dzhafarova/AFP/Getty Images The interceptor shortage has become more acute as a result of the US-Israel war on Iran, which has consumed large numbers of Patriot and other interceptors . An analysis by the Associated Press estimated that the US Patriot inventory had fallen by at least 65% since before the war. The Pentagon claims it retains a deep arsenal of supplies. Production cannot immediately close the gap. Lockheed Martin delivered more than 600 of the newest model of interceptors in 2025 and is working toward annual capacity of 2,000 by the end of 2030. But according to some estimates, Gulf states collectively fired more than 1,100 interceptors in the first three months of the Iran war. Nato says Europe’s first Patriot missile production facility is expected to open in September in Germany. Political signals from Washington have also shifted. At a Nato summit last month, Donald Trump said the US would give Ukraine a licence to produce Patriots . About three weeks later, he said he had not made a final decision . Even with a licence, officials and experts estimate that starting production in Ukraine would take years. Despite Trump casting doubt on the deal last month, the US is pressing ahead with talks on allowing Ukraine to make Patriot interceptors, according to reports from Reuters. The discussions ⁠include an option for Ukraine to ⁠build some components for final assembly elsewhere in ​Europe, according to the report. Explore more on these topics Ukraine Volodymyr Zelenskyy US foreign policy Europe Russia news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)