Thai pupil describes harrowing moment teacher was shot in front of her - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Asia China India Thai pupil describes harrowing moment teacher was shot in front of her Image source, Reuters Image caption, One student recounts having to climb over a fence to escape By Jonathan Head , South East Asia correspondent , Thanyarat Doksone , Reporting from Debsirin School, Nonthaburi and Tiffanie Turnbull Published 38 minutes ago On Friday morning, as the final classes of the week were under way, panicked students began streaming out of a prestigious school just outside Bangkok. Inside, police say, a 14-year-old boy had opened fire at the Debsirin School in Nonthaburi, on the outskirts of the Thai capital. "I was standing in front of the teacher when she was shot," a shaken seventh grader tells the BBC, near the school gates. "She was talking to me when (the gunman) showed up." Still in her uniform, with her mother by her side, she explains how the shooter stalked from room to room. Police say he killed five teachers and injured more than a dozen people - including pupils - before turning the weapon on himself. Earlier, he had gunned down his grandparents. "I had to climb over the school fence to escape with other friends," the girl - who the BBC is not naming - continues. Her mother says the girl thought she might die. "[She said] 'I thought I'd never see you again'." Metres from the school gates, paramedics loaded the wounded into ambulances and rushed them to hospital, as milling crowds hugged and cried. One 18-year-old student told Reuters he initially thought there were firecrackers going off. "I didn't think it was a gun at first," he said. "There were many shots: bang bang bang. Then it went quiet. Then it started again." Image source, Reuters Image caption, Authorities say the 14-year-old shot five teachers dead, and more than a dozen injuries have been reported This is Thailand's deadliest mass shooting in years - and the second at a school this year. In February, a head teacher and a female student were shot by an 18-year-old gunman during a school siege in southern Thailand. Four years ago, a 34-year-old resident in the eastern Nong Bua Lamphu province killed 37 people, most of them preschoolers, in a shooting and stabbing at a nursery. These crimes have resurfaced questions about gun control in the country. While there are restrictions on gun ownership in Thailand, people can still acquire guns - legally or illegally - with relative ease. Thailand has one of the highest rates of gun ownership in South East Asia - and it's not clear if authorities have taken any significant action to curb gun crime amid rising concerns. "This shouldn't have happened," the boyfriend of one of the killed teachers told reporters, clearly distressed and trying to hold back tears. It is early days in the investigation and police haven't said anything about a motive. They have said they believe the 9mm handgun the shooter used belongs to his grandfather, who was a teacher, but little else. Others are filling some of the gaps. A teacher at the school has said the shooter was a good student - not aggressive and with good grades - and education authorities have described him as an avid gamer. But it is clear authorities will have many questions to answer in the coming days - many of them about what change this crime must trigger. An opposition leader has called for Thai authorities to review the country's gun control measures. "An act of violence in an educational institution, which should be one of the safest places in our society, serves as a stark reminder for Thai society to seriously and systematically review gun control measures," Natthaphong Ruengpanyawut, leader of the People's Party wrote in a Facebook post following the shooting. Related topics Thailand More on this story Seven killed after Thai teen shooter opens fire at home and school Published 1 hour ago The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:05 What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:05, play video What we know about the Thailand school shooting 1:11 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 00:01:11, play video 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 0:39 How much rain will end the drought? 00:00:39, play video How much rain will end the drought? 1:43 Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment. 00:01:43, play video Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment 0:24 Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol. 00:00:24, play video Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol 1:00 What is 'food noise'? 00:01:00, play video What is 'food noise'? 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:00 What do people want from Argos? 00:01:00, play video What do people want from Argos? 0:58 Meet Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 New hope for Afghan women's football team. 00:01:19, play video New hope for Afghan women's football team 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house hit in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house hit in strike Top stories Live . Several dead after Thai teen shoots grandparents and schoolteachers 10146 viewing 10k viewing Thai pupil describes harrowing moment teacher was shot in front of her Published 38 minutes ago Officer who led PC Harper investigation 'appalled' killers could be released early Published 1 hour ago More to explore Argos is getting a makeover - but can it attract new shoppers? Lauryn Hill and Wyclef ‘in an amazing place’ as fans hope for new Fugees album after 30 years How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man ‘We have nowhere to return to’: How Russia is seizing homes in occupied Ukraine Sudan's invisible children - born in war with no legal identity First OpenAI, now Meta - why do AI hacks keep happening? The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 England footballer Toney charged with assault in Soho 2 Further arrests in Thetford as disorder continues for third night 3 Officer who led PC Harper investigation 'appalled' killers could be released early 4 How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man 5 Trump again tries to limit US birthright citizenship with new executive orders 6 Meta fined $567m in largest child safety ruling against social media giant 7 'Tories to end social housing for foreigners' and 'Bottoms down' 8 Argos is getting a makeover - but can it attract new shoppers? 9 German airport drone-bomb: Could Russia be involved? 10 Weekly quiz: Ed Sheeran got in trouble with the DVLA over which make of classic car? BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.