Top Democrats accuse Trump officials over Israeli settlers’ ‘unbridled violence’ | US foreign policy | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Support the Guardian Last chance to fund independent journalism with 50% off Claim discount Claim discount Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness A burned car and building after a reported attack by Israeli settlers on the outskirts of Ramallah in the occupied West Bank. Photograph: Zain Jaafar/AFP/Getty Images View image in fullscreen A burned car and building after a reported attack by Israeli settlers on the outskirts of Ramallah in the occupied West Bank. Photograph: Zain Jaafar/AFP/Getty Images US foreign policy Top Democrats accuse Trump officials over Israeli settlers’ ‘unbridled violence’ Letter says lifting of sanctions sent ‘clear message’ settlers can use deadly force in West Bank without consequences David Smith Washington bureau chief Thu 6 Aug 2026 06.00 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 10.14 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Senior Democrats have accused Donald Trump’s administration of giving a green light to violent Israeli settlers in the occupied West Bank, warning that its policies created “a climate of impunity and unbridled violence” that endangers both Palestinians and US citizens. In a letter seen by the Guardian, a group of 19 Democratic senators and representatives call for the restoration of sanctions against extremist settlers and demand independent US investigations into the deaths of nine US citizens killed in the West Bank since 2022. The letter, signed by the Massachusetts senator Elizabeth Warren among others, is addressed to Todd Blanche, the acting attorney general, Marco Rubio, the secretary of state, and Scott Bessent, the treasury secretary. It argues that Trump’s promise last year that “I will not allow Israel to annex the West Bank” has been undermined by events on the ground. “In practice,” the Democrats write, “violent settlers and the [Benjamin] Netanyahu government have proceeded to rapidly extend Israeli control over civilian populations in the region.” They urge the administration to use “all the diplomatic and economic tools at its disposal, including restoring sanctions, to end this violence and expansion of settlements”. The Democrats argue that Trump’s decision on his first day back in office to rescind sanctions imposed on more than 30 settlers and organisations linked to violence has had profound consequences. “Ending sanctions against those individuals and entities associated with West Bank extremism sent a clear message,” they write. “Settlers can use violent and deadly force with impunity against Palestinians and Americans while seizing land … and no one will face consequences.” The letter cites UN figures showing 1,835 attacks on Palestinian communities and property during 2025, the highest number since records began, and says the UN has reported that the pace of settler attacks this year is higher than in any year on record. It highlights repeated attacks on Turmus Ayya , a Palestinian town where the majority of residents are US citizens, including the burning of a family home belonging to Americans from Massachusetts and Washington state. The elected officials also focus on what they say has become an increasingly dangerous environment for Americans. Since Trump returned to office, they write, four US citizens have been killed by Israeli settlers or security forces in the West Bank, bringing the total since 2022 to nine. The victims include the Palestinian American journalist Shireen Abu Akleh , 14-year-old Amer Mohammed Rabea , 17-year-olds Tawfic Abdel Jabbar and Mohammad Ahmed Mohammad Khdour and 20-year-old Sayfollah Musallet, as well as Omar Assad, a 78-year-old Palestinian American, and the Turkish American activist Aysenur Ezgi Eygi. The letter says the justice department “has the authority to independently investigate the killing of Americans abroad” but “has reportedly not opened investigations into any of the killings since 2025. Israel has yet to indict a single person involved in these incidents.” The Democrats also express concern over the detention of US citizens by the Israeli military including 20-year-old Sama Safi , whose access to vital medication was allegedly interrupted after her arrest, and Mohammed Ibrahim , who they say was detained for nine months while aged 15. They urge the administration to secure Safi’s immediate release and “push for the end of unjust and arbitrary detentions in the territory”. The senators and representatives argue that the violence extends beyond Palestinian communities, pointing to repeated attacks on Taybeh, described in the letter as “the last entirely Christian village in the West Bank”. Although the US ambassador to Israel, Mike Huckabee , described an earlier attack there as “an act of terror” and pledged that those responsible would be prosecuted, the senators and representatives note that “no one has been arrested in connection with these crimes”. Huckabee is an evangelical Christian who has supported Jewish claims on the occupied land that settlers call Judea and Samaria. The letter is signed by Warren, Ed Markey, Jeff Merkley, Patty Murray, Jack Reed, Bernie Sanders , Brian Schatz, Adam Schiff, Chris Van Hollen, Peter Welch and Ron Wyden. The House of Representatives signatories are Katherine Clark, Richard Neal, Jim McGovern, Seth Moulton, Ayanna Pressley, Jake Auchincloss, Stephen Lynch and Lori Trahan. It concludes that Israeli security forces and settlers have attacked and displaced Palestinians in the West Bank “at an unprecedented rate” since the Trump administration took office and argues that Washington’s “deference to the Netanyahu government has contributed to a climate of impunity and unbridled violence towards civilian populations and religious minorities”. It demands answers by 17 August on investigations into attacks on Americans, the lifting of sanctions and the treatment of US citizens detained by the Israeli military. Explore more on these topics US foreign policy Israel Palestine Donald Trump Middle East and north Africa Trump administration Democrats news Share Reuse this content Most viewed California woman who admitted to stabbing wife had also killed husband Trump’s favorite cable news channel is pushing back against his war on Iran ‘It didn’t need to end this way’: mother of US teen trafficked and killed decries police failures Cambridge academics reject university’s attempt to end row over Jason Arday ‘Not afraid of controversy’: Edinburgh fringe rejects calls to cancel Amanda Knox comedy Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)