Idaho police release video of In-N-Out Burger mass shooting that killed three | Idaho | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness A woman at a candelight vigil for the victims of the Twin Falls shooting. Photograph: Andrew Eakin/AP View image in fullscreen A woman at a candelight vigil for the victims of the Twin Falls shooting. Photograph: Andrew Eakin/AP Idaho Idaho police release video of In-N-Out Burger mass shooting that killed three Officials praise unarmed employee from nearby store for engaging 24-year-old gunman who later killed himself Guardian staff and agencies Fri 7 Aug 2026 17.41 EDT Last modified on Fri 7 Aug 2026 23.19 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Police released video on Friday of a mass shooting that killed three people at an Idaho In-N-Out Burger restaurant last weekend, and praised an unarmed employee from a nearby store who engaged the gunman outdoors, slowing him down and possibly preventing more deaths as authorities were catching up. The video released by the police also showed at least three people confronted the gunman with their own weapons during the incident. “What happened here was violent, frightening and deeply traumatic,” the Twin Falls police chief, Matthew Hicks, said during a news conference before screening an eight-and-a-half minute compilation of surveillance camera and bodycam video of the incident. The distressing video, which was edited by the police to blur faces and omit graphic images, revealed more details of the chaotic scene last weekend. It shows that the gunman walked up to the drive-thru window four times and opened fire, killing an In-N-Out employee, police said. Ten people were shot – inside the restaurant, directly outside, on an adjacent busy road and at a car charging station in a Twin Falls visitor center lot, Hicks said. Hicks said investigators still do noty have a motive for the shooting. The gunman, identified as Chad Williams, 24, killed himself when police officers caught up to him on a nearby walking trail. It should have been a “normal Saturday afternoon”, Hicks said at the televised news conference . “Employees showing up for work. Visitors coming to see our beautiful city. Instead they were confronted with chaos, fear and now loss.” As the shooting unfolded, employees from nearby stores fled to a walking trail. When the gunman headed to the trail, he came across two people, including one with his hands in the air who spoke to him, the video shows. That man distracted the gunman from possibly pursuing others on the trail. Williams subsequently killed himself as police closed in. His body was found near a canyon. “To that young man, you are a hero,” Hicks said of the bystander who slowed the gunman down. “Your courage, your composure, your selflessness in that moment likely gave others the time they needed to escape harm. This community is grateful for you, and we will never forget what you did that day.” Hicks also praised the work of an off-duty state trooper, who shot at Williams from inside the restaurant, and a former police officer, AJ James, who was wounded while confronting him. Authorities had previously credited an armed civilian who fired back and diverted Williams from the restaurant. James ran toward the sound of gunfire from the drive-thru window, while the off-duty officer inside the In-N-Out exchanged gunfire with Williams through the window and directed workers out of the building, Hicks said. He acted “heroically and unbelievably” to try to slow down the shooter, the police chief said, declining to release the off-duty officer’s name. Braxton Steube said he was the person who encountered Williams on the trail after fleeing a Dick’s Sporting Good store. “I said, ‘I have a family.’ I said, ‘You don’t have to do this. I’ll tell you whatever you want. I’ll do anything,’” Steube told KMVT-TV in Twin Falls. “He started to like tear up a bit, it seemed. And he said to me, ‘Just get away from me, man.’” Steube said the gunman shot at him and missed. Police identified those killed as Ashley Garibay, 23, of Stockton, California; Dale Schultz, 66, of Salt Lake City; and Christopher Claunch, 59, of Hagerman, Idaho. Williams had briefly attended the College of Southern Idaho and previously lived in Arizona. Explore more on these topics Idaho Gun crime news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)