At least 4 killed, including a child, in Russian strikes on Ukraine - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War UFO Files World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War UFO Files World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News World At least 4 killed, including a child, in Russian strikes on Ukraine Updated on: August 8, 2026 / 7:27 AM EDT / AP Add CBS News on Google Four people, including a child, were killed in Russian attacks on the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, and the surrounding region, local officials said Saturday, as Ukraine hit another oil refinery in Russia. Residents endure regular drone and missile barrages that Kyiv's depleted air defenses are struggling to counter amid Moscow's 4-year-old full-scale invasion, while repeated Ukrainian strikes on oil facilities have caused fuel shortages and rattled Russians. Two grandparents and their 3-year-old grandson were killed after multiple Russian drones destroyed their home in the Brovary district of Kyiv region, northeast of the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, early Saturday. Ukraine's state emergency service shared photos of a destroyed building covered in flames, saying the attack in the village of Pukhivka destroyed a two-storey house and two cars and sparked a fire in a warehouse. @SESU_UA Three other members of the same family and a neighbor who came to their aid were hospitalized, local authorities said. The attack reduced the house to rubble and wrecked outbuildings and cars. In the city of Kyiv, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said at least one other person died in a "strike involving six ballistic missiles against civilian infrastructure." In its daily report, Ukraine's air force said it had downed or intercepted 135 of 151 drones launched by Russia overnight. The attack also involved six ballistic missiles and other guided missiles. Russia has relentlessly pounded civilian areas of Ukraine, even though Moscow insists its forces target only military facilities. Moscow is exploiting Ukraine's critical shortage of interceptors for the U.S.-made Patriot systems, the sole air defense weapon in its arsenal able to shoot down ballistic missiles. Zelenskyy has pleaded with other countries, especially the U.S., to send more of the ammunition made scarcer by the Iran war. Failing that, he wants to make Patriot ammunition in Ukraine or win permission from Elon Musk to use his Starlink satellite communications system to guide strikes inside Russia that can hit its missile launchers. Following the latest attacks, Zelenskyy appealed on X for more sanctions to "prevent the production of these ballistic missiles," along with "anti-ballistic capabilities" and "interceptor missiles." War in Ukraine More Ukraine denies targeting Bulgaria after drone explodes near gas pipeline Russian drone factory director seriously injured in car explosion Video shows drone attacking a street vendor in Ukraine Serviceman kills 3 civilians, 1 soldier in Russian-held Crimea Ukrainian drone strike on Russian warehouses in Moscow region kills 5 Go deeper with The Free Press Is Ukraine Winning Without U.S. Help? Is Ukraine Winning the War? In: War Ukraine Russia Kyiv © 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. CBS News Live CBS News 24/7 Live CBS News 24/7 Wildfires in western Canada forces more than 20,000 people to evacuate Iran says strait won't open until the U.S. "corrects" behavior Helicopter fighting massive Utah wildfire crashes, no word on 2 people aboard Is Ukraine Winning Without U.S. Help? Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue