Video shows drone attacking a street vendor in Ukraine; Zelenskyy accuses Russia of human "safari" - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Michigan Senate Primary World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War Michigan Senate Primary World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News World Video shows drone attacking a street vendor in Ukraine; Zelenskyy accuses Russia of human "safari" By Duarte Dias Duarte Dias Digital Journalist Duarte Pita Dias is based in CBS News' London bureau, where he works across digital platforms and for TV broadcasts. Read Full Bio Duarte Dias Updated on: August 5, 2026 / 2:28 PM EDT / CBS/AFP Add CBS News on Google Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy shared a video purporting to show a civilian being chased and attacked by a Russian drone in the city of Kherson. In a social media post on Tuesday, Zelenskyy said the world "must see" the footage that he said shows Russia's soldiers "take pleasure in killing and abusing civilians." The president said the drone, which carried explosives, hunted a man selling vegetables on the side of a road and detonated "right next to him." The footage shows a drone hovering around the man in question as he attempts to evade it before it flies toward him and explodes. Zelenskyy called the footage "yet another video of the drone 'safari' Russians are carrying out against civilians in Kherson." Today, many were shocked by yet another video of the drone “safari” Russians are carrying out against civilians in Kherson. A Russian drone deliberately hunted down a man selling vegetables and detonated right next to him. The Russians even admitted to the crime, showing zero… pic.twitter.com/uGjC7esFwR — Volodymyr Zelenskyy / Володимир Зеленський (@ZelenskyyUa) August 4, 2026 The man, who has been identified as Yurii, survived with shrapnel wounds to the torso, legs and arms as well as a concussion, according to a doctor interviewed in a video posted by the head of the Kherson region, Oleksandr Prokudin. In the footage posted on social media by Prokudin, Yurii recounted trying to show the drone operators he was there to sell vegetables. "I was showing it, saying, 'Look, vegetables.' But it started coming straight at me," the man said. "I started running, it hit the vehicle and I was right next to it." Russian drone barrage kills at least 17 An overnight Russian attack on Ukraine's capital and the surrounding region killed at least 17 people and wounded dozens of others, authorities said Wednesday. Kyiv's military administration said the missile and drone barrage hit residential buildings and warehouses. "Kyiv region experienced one of its most tragic enemy attacks yet again tonight," Tymur Tkachenko, head of the regional military administration, wrote on Telegram. "Russia has once again brought death and destruction to our land, taking the lives of civilians. Just accountability will certainly follow for every such crime." War in Ukraine More Russian drone factory director seriously injured in car explosion Serviceman kills 3 civilians, 1 soldier in Russian-held Crimea Ukrainian drone strike on Russian warehouses in Moscow region kills 5 Funeral held for family "wiped off the map" in Russian strike Russian strikes on Kyiv kill 9, injure at least 27, officials say Go deeper with The Free Press Ukraine’s Top Drone Commander on What the Pentagon Keeps Missing Ukraine’s Drones Could Launch a Military Tech Revolution In: War Ukraine Russia Drone © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Agence France-Presse contributed to this report. Russian drone chases Ukrainian man in video Alarming video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian man before exploding 02:25 Alarming video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian man before exploding (02:25) Russian drone factory director seriously injured in car explosion Serviceman kills 3 civilians, 1 soldier in Russian-held Crimea Funeral held for family "wiped off the map" in Russian strike Ukraine’s Top Drone Commander on What the Pentagon Keeps Missing Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue