In Odesa, no-one is safe from Russia's new Black Sea strike campaign - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat World Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Odesa, no-one is safe from Russia's new Black Sea strikes Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Russian missiles and drones are hammering Ukraine's Black Sea ports, like Odesa By Paul Adams Diplomatic correspondent in Odesa Published 6 August 2026, 06:00 BST "My crane operator, my partner, died five metres from me… The driver remained in the cabin. He also died." Svitlana Halchenko winces as she remembers the Russian ballistic missile which exploded at work in Odesa, killing her colleagues. Svitlana works as a warehouse shift manager at the city's main port. Despite her injuries – she walks with a limp, pieces of shrapnel still embedded in her leg and back – Svitlana is determined to keep working. But her normally bustling workplace is largely silent. Russia is ramping up its efforts to strangle Ukraine's commercial links to the outside world, launching attacks all along the country's Black Sea coastline. From damaged port infrastructure to listing ships with bridges blackened and containers still smouldering, the evidence is everywhere. Nowhere more so than out towards the horizon, where the approaches to Ukraine's once bustling ports – Odesa, Chornomorsk, Pivdennyi – are almost devoid of ships. See more of Paul Adams' trip to Odesa here on YouTube , external Svitlana maintains a brave smile throughout our conversation, but her distress is painfully obvious. Her fingers constantly twist a tissue as she tries to maintain her composure and she gazes into the distance as tears well up behind her glasses. The last few weeks have been worse than ever. "It's been very difficult for morale," she says with a deep sigh. "A lot of sirens, a lot of shaheds [drones], a lot of hits. People are very tense." Maarten Lernout/BBC My crane operator, my partner, died five metres from me… The driver remained in the cabin. He also died Svitlana Halchenko Odesa port worker According to Ukraine's port administration, July saw 57 Russian attacks on civilian vessels, 22 of them at sea, and a further 67 hits on port infrastructure. While there have been Russian attacks on international vessels before, they've never been so numerous or so deadly. On July 19, a Turkish-owned cargo vessel, Golden Leo, was struck by three Russian missiles, killing nine Indian and Syrian crew members and a Ukrainian pilot. The ship, carrying Ukrainian corn, sank off Odesa a week later. According to the global shipping journal Lloyd's List, the Black Sea may now be the most dangerous place for shipping in the world - with July the deadliest month for merchant seamen , external since Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine began. At his union's offices in the port city, Oleg Grygoriuk, Chairman of the Marine Transport Workers Union of Ukraine, says his members are suffering. "There are a lot of veterans who already served their country," he says, "and they literally say that being in the port is more scary than being on the front line." Odesa's proximity to Russian-occupied territory means that workers often have little time to react. "A missile flies from Crimea within a minute," he says. "If you are sitting in a crane, you need three and a half minutes to get down and go to the shelter. There's literally no time to do that." On a rare visit to one of the area's main ports, we saw almost no sign of movement. Hundreds of metres of berths sat empty and towering gantry cranes stood idle as a skeleton crew conducted maintenance. Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Odesa's port lies empty now as Russia steps up its attacks The military authorities allowed the visit on strict condition that we neither name the facility nor film anything. Ukraine doesn't want Russia to know what has and hasn't been damaged or reveal details that might aid Moscow in further targeting. Two damaged cargo vessels were moored nearby. Both had suffered severe damage to the superstructure, where the bridge and crew quarters are located. Just one lone freighter was seen moving towards the port. "My heart is broken," a senior manager told us on condition we didn't name him. "Normally there's a queue, even out at sea, waiting for a berth." "There was a deal," he said, referring to the UN-brokered 2022 Black Sea Grain Initiative, under which Russia agreed to lift its blockade on Ukraine's agricultural exports. The agreement established safe maritime corridors to Odesa's main ports. "They stopped the deal in the middle of 2023, but they didn't start attacking it until recently," the manager said. "Today they do it systematically." Halfway through our tour, sirens sounded, forcing us to seek shelter for several minutes as a Russian jet-powered drone flew overhead. Weary dock workers scanned their phones for updates until the all-clear sounded. The manager said recent alerts have forced the port to shut down for 15 out of 24 hours. Technically, the port is open, as are all the others in the area. There is no prohibition on commercial ships attempting to use them. But the risks are clearly too great for most shipowners. "There is barely anybody who wants to call because there is a huge problem with people getting killed," says Andrey Stavnitser, co-owner and CEO of one of the largest ports in the area. "We can see that the whole supply chain is on hold." Image caption, Russia has made Ukraine's Black Sea coastline incredibly dangerous for shipping Stavnitser says Russia is almost certainly retaliating for Ukraine's recent, highly successful attacks on Russian shipping, including sanctioned vessels carrying oil, as well as other ships involved in ferrying supplies to Russian-occupied Crimea. Using its own drones, Ukraine's Operation MoLoChKa (which roughly translates as "Moscow will fall through Crimea") has struck around 200 Russian vessels, bringing traffic in the strategic Sea of Azov to a virtual standstill. Ukrainians bristle at the suggestion that Russia and Ukraine are playing the same game. Kyiv is attempting to loosen Moscow's grip on occupied territory, they point out, while Russia is preventing Ukraine from exporting badly needed grain to the international market. With Ukraine's summer grain harvest well under way, this is all happening at the worst possible time. "It's the most sensitive period," says Volodymyr Slavinskyi, trading director for Nibulon, one of the country's leading grain exporters. "Farmers need to quickly harvest grains from the fields, not to lose the crop. They need to be able to sell the crop they harvested and reinvest money in the next production cycle." The impact of a prolonged shutdown of Ukraine's ports are likely to be severe. Ukraine is one of the world's largest producers of grain and oilseeds, supplying around 6% of global wheat exports before Russia's full-scale invasion and 10% of corn exports. But reports suggest , external its export capacity has dropped by at least a third since Russia launched its full-scale invasion. The Black Sea remains a vital export route for the country. Last year, the Greater Odesa ports accounted for more than 73 million tonnes of Ukraine's maritime exports, with grain accounting for 38 million tonnes. With almost no vessels currently moving on Ukraine's Black Sea shipping corridor, traders are already counting the cost of this summer's closure. "I would say we've already lost the ability to deliver to global customers around half a million or 700,000 metric tons of Ukrainian grains and oilseeds," Slavinskyi says. Image source, Kristina Volk/BBC Image caption, Volodymyr Slavinskyi says Ukraine has lost a huge amount of its export capacity Away from the port, Odesa is determined to show off a very different side. The summer season is in full swing. The beaches are packed as visitors descend on the Black Sea from all over Ukraine. Buskers perform on the city's famous Potemkin Stairs, while sunbathers barely flinch as the sirens sound and explosions rumble in the distance. In a video published on Monday, swimmers were seen removing a Russian drone from the water as holidaymakers look on. They know the risks. In late June, 26-year-old Daria Kravchenko was killed when shrapnel from an intercepted Russian drone landed on the beach. This week, holidaymakers on Russia's equally Black Sea coast suffered a similar fate when an intercepted Ukrainian drone crashed onto a busy beach. Local authorities said seven people were killed, including three children. It's not clear what Ukraine was targeting, but this war on ships and ports has many casual victims. Sailors, dockworkers or people simply unlucky enough to live or work nearby. Outside Odesa, after a recent drone explosion, we found 83-year-old Andrii Dudik, surveying the mangled wreckage of his house and garden. He was physically unscathed and remarkably sanguine about the drone that had shattered his routine afternoon nap just hours earlier. "I was lying there, wondering what I was going to do this afternoon. Now I know," he joked. Did he feel like an accidental victim of Russia's attacks on the nearby ports, I asked him. "Absolutely," he replied. "And I won't forget it." Additional reporting by Kristina Volk, Anastasiia Levchenko, Volodymyr Lozhko and Joshua Cheetham Related topics War in Ukraine Russia Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky Vladimir Putin The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:58 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns. 00:00:58, play video Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 1:19 England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations. 00:01:19, play video England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia Top stories Live . Major disruption on railways in northern England after Manchester power failure 12800 viewing 13k viewing Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases Published 1 hour ago Live . FA withdraw support for Infantino as Uefa say World Cup boycott may still go ahead 13636 viewing 14k viewing More to explore The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Rihanna is 'in the studio', says partner A$AP Rocky Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives Why aren't more women getting into padel? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order 2 Mark Hughes' son died of sudden adult death syndrome 3 Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' 4 Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases 5 Nadia Sawalha threatens ITV with legal action over Loose Women removal 6 Ukraine hits two oil refineries deep in Russian territory 7 Meredith Kercher's sister criticises Amanda Knox comedy show 8 All of England's rivers and lakes polluted with chemicals, officials say 9 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 10 All schools in England to get pupil attendance targets, government says BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.