Record-breaking week for options powers S&P 500 surge Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Options Action Options Action A record-breaking week for options powers S&P 500 surge; volatility gauge is near 2026 low Published Sat, Aug 8 2026 7:49 AM EDT Oliver Renick @OJRenick WATCH LIVE In this article .SPX .VIX SPY SKHY SKHY EUV US10Y SOXX Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 0:55 00:55 Options Action: Big week for options bulls, VIX hits January lows Closing Bell Stock market bulls got some huge affirmation this week as the S&P 500 made all-time highs, options volumes set records, and shares of this year's star IPO – SpaceX – stabilized and rallied despite its earnings report and the end of its first lockup period. On Friday, the Cboe Volatility Index (VIX) fell to its lowest level since January as the S&P 500 added 0.6%, bringing the week's advance to 3.6%. More than four million S&P 500 index calls traded on Cboe Global Markets Tuesday as the benchmark gauge surged above 7,700 for the first time in history. That topped the previous record for call trading in May by 10%, according to exchange data. Cboe Volatility Index, 1 year "That's what it used to sound like," one trader on the Cboe floor in Chicago told me after Tuesday's roaring rally, referring to when thousands of traders crammed the pits in decades past. "Sometimes it sounds like that on down days, but we were up. That was really busy." Zero-day-to-expiry call options accounted for 2.4 million trades in the S&P 500 on Tuesday, also a record. The ratio of puts to calls among all options plunged to 0.83, the second-lowest recorded. The average is greater than 1, reflecting the primary usage of put options as hedging instruments. Total open interest in the S&P 500 ended the week at 27.4 million contracts, in the 93rd percentile over the past year, according to Cboe. The ratio in open interest of calls is in the 95th percentile. Where that open interest is concentrated can help give investors an idea where the stock market might find support or resistance going forward. The most popular strike in the State Street SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust (SPY) by combined open interest of both puts and calls is the 760-strike, about 1.7% below where the fund closed on Friday, according to Barchart data. That's because of 94,000 open puts, which could create support for the market on dips that turn into profit-taking for lingering bears who just had a rough week. On the upside, the biggest level for call buyers is the 785-strike, where there are 114,000 open calls. SPDR S&P 500 Trust (SPY), YTD "'Sell in May and go and play' is over and advisors are getting back to work as the summer ends," Ed Rumell, head of ETFs at Corgi, said in a call. "We saw a big week in the underlying options on our buffer funds as well as big activity in SK Hynix and tech trades like our flagship photonics fund." Beaten-down semiconductor stocks jumped, with the iShares Semiconductor ETF (SOXX) advancing more than 7% on the week. The Corgi Lithography & Semiconductor Photonics ETF (EUV) added 13% in the period. Also helping the rally: The 10-year Treasury yield stopped its ascent at 4.7% S&P 500 earnings are on pace to grow 47% in the second quarter, which would be the biggest since the rebound from Covid in 2021, according to FactSet. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. More In Options Action watch now watch now VIDEO 00:55 Options Action: Big week for options bulls, VIX hits January lows watch now watch now VIDEO 00:58 Options Action: Bullish options moves around SpaceX Gold bugs spend $180 million betting all's clear for metal as bond yields stall Oliver Renick Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by