Foreigners are buying fewer U.S. properties Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Real Estate Housing Construction REITs Rising Risks Podcast Newsletter Sign-up CNBC Property Play Foreigners are buying fewer U.S. properties, but luxury homebuilders still draw them in Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 9:15 AM EDT Updated Tue, Aug 4 2026 9:33 AM EDT Diana Olick @in/dianaolick @DianaOlickCNBC @DianaOlick WATCH LIVE Key Points Sales of U.S. existing homes to foreign buyers from April 2025 through March 2026 dropped 14% in unit volume and 19% in dollar volume, according to a report from the National Association of Realtors. The biggest drop in buyers has been among highly skilled workers coming to the U.S. on H-1B visas and similar employment-based programs. Chinese buyers previously led in international sales by number of transactions but dropped behind Mexican buyers last year. Houses in Orchard Hills in Irvine, California, on Tuesday, May 28, 2024. Paul Bersebach | Orange County Register | Medianews Group | Getty Images A version of this article first appeared in the CNBC Property Play newsletter with Diana Olick. Property Play covers new and evolving opportunities for the real estate investor, from individuals to venture capitalists, private equity funds, family offices, institutional investors and large public companies. Sign up to receive future editions, straight to your inbox. Foreign buyers are pulling back sharply from U.S. residential real estate, but one segment of the nation's homebuilders is still seeing strong international demand. Sales of U.S. existing homes to foreign buyers from April 2025 through March 2026 dropped 14% in unit volume and 19% in dollar volume compared with the 12 months prior, according to an annual report from the National Association of Realtors. International buyers closed on roughly 67,100 properties during the 12 months ended in March, which is the second-lowest amount since NAR began tracking this metric in 2009. The median price for foreign sales was $465,000. "The decline in foreign home buyer activity mirrors the decline in international visitors and tourists to the United States," said Lawrence Yun, chief economist for the NAR, in a release. "Even a slightly weaker U.S. dollar over the past year, which provides more purchasing power for foreigners, did not induce more activity." Get Property Play directly to your inbox CNBC's Property Play with Diana Olick covers new and evolving opportunities for the real estate investor, delivered weekly to your inbox. Subscribe here to get access today . The Realtors do not include sales of newly built homes in the data, and there are no specific numbers, as these sales are harder to track. Researchers at John Burns Research & Consulting, however, monitors foreign activity through anecdotal commentary and observations in sales offices. "Although the overall volume of new home sales to international buyers has decreased recently, the luxury segment remains relatively strong," said Scott Wild, a principal at JBREC. "In the Southern California city of Irvine, for example, the luxury new home market continues to be driven by buyers from outside the county, particularly affluent buyers from China, many of whom are purchasing homes with cash. Irvine homebuilders continue to directly target foreign buyers and market their highest-end communities internationally." Of the nation's big public builders, luxury homebuilder Toll Brothers has the overall strongest brand with foreign buyers, according to Wild. "Toll Brothers often markets their luxury homes internationally and does an excellent job tailoring model homes to appeal to specific buyer groups from outside the U.S.," he said, adding that international homebuyers shouldn't be viewed as a single market, as trends vary substantially between wealthy investors, households seeking to establish residency and highly skilled professionals relocating for work. "These homebuyer groups are responding to different economic and policy factors," Wild said. The biggest drop in buyers has come from highly skilled workers coming to the U.S. on H-1B visas and similar employment-based programs, according to Wild, who noted that these buyers have shown strong new home demand in technology-driven markets, but shifting immigration and visa policies create uncertainty that directly affects their ability and willingness to purchase homes here. Canadians accounted for the largest share of foreign home purchases in the U.S. last year, at 16% of international sales, up from 14% the year before. Chinese buyers, who previously led in international sales by number of transactions, dropped to third place behind Mexican buyers, but spent the most dollars because they purchased more luxury homes, particularly in California. "Florida, with its beaches and favorable winter climate, continues to be the top state to draw foreign buyers," said Yun. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. More In CNBC Property Play Wall Street is selling more rental homes, as buying ban takes effect Diana Olick Manhattan office leasing sees strongest gains in 20 years Diana Olick Far more real estate agents now report seeing a balanced market, CNBC Housing Market Survey finds Diana Olick Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by