Russian strikes kill six in Ukraine as Moscow intercepts hundreds of drones | Russia-Ukraine war News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up Navigation menu Russia-Ukraine war Is the war entering a new phase? Starving on the front lines Four years of war Zelenskyy’s open letter to Putin News | Russia-Ukraine war Russian strikes kill six in Ukraine as Moscow intercepts hundreds of drones Ukrainian officials say three people killed in Kharkiv region and three in Sumy region, as Russia says it intercepted 605 drones. Listen (2 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google Firefighters work at the site of a house destroyed during overnight Russian drone strikes in the town of Balakliya, in Kharkiv region, Ukraine, August 6, 2026 [Handout/State Emergency Service of Ukraine via Reuters] By Al Jazeera Staff , AFP and Reuters Published On 6 Aug 2026 6 Aug 2026 Russian strikes on eastern Ukraine have killed at least six people overnight, local authorities have said, as Moscow shot down 605 Ukrainian drones over its territory and the annexed Crimean Peninsula. Rescuers worked on Thursday to douse fires and clear debris ⁠in Balakliya, in the eastern Kharkiv region, after Russian strikes ⁠on homes killed three people, authorities said on the Telegram messaging app. Vitalii Karabanov, head of the military administration in the front-line city, said the victims were two women and a man. Recommended Stories list of 3 items list 1 of 3 At least 27 killed as Russia and Ukraine trade heavy attacks list 2 of 3 Nine killed in escalating long-range strikes between Russia and Ukraine list 3 of 3 Russian missile attack kills 14, injures 27 in Ukraine’s Kyiv region end of list Three more people were killed overnight ‌and at least 19 others wounded in Russian attacks in the northern region of Sumy. Twelve people were wounded in the city of Sumy following an attack with ⁠guided aerial bombs, according to Ukrainian police. Separately, two people were wounded in a Russian attack in the Dnipropetrovsk region, according to Oleksandr Ganzha, the head of the regional military administration. A drone attack on a ⁠van wounded six people in the southern ⁠region of Kherson, the regional ⁠administration said on Telegram. In Ukraine’s Black Sea area, a ⁠Russian ⁠attack damaged a foreign-flagged ship loaded with ⁠wheat, killing ⁠a crew member and causing a fire, Oleh Kiper, Odesa regional ‌governor, said. Ukraine’s seaport administration said the vessel Mera Queen, under the ⁠flag of Guinea-Bissau, was ⁠hit late on Wednesday. For more than a month, ⁠Russia has been ramping ⁠up its efforts ⁠to strangle Ukraine’s trade and export routes, launching near-daily attacks on the country’s Black Sea ‌ports. Advertisement Meanwhile, Russia’s Ministry of Defence said its forces had shot down Ukrainian drones overnight. “During the night … air defence systems intercepted and destroyed 605 Ukrainian aerial drones,” the ministry said in a statement. Local authorities reported that a logistics centre belonging to Russian e-commerce giant Wildberries had been “slightly damaged”. The incident comes days after another Wildberries warehouse was struck by drones in the Tver region, northwest of Moscow. At ⁠least 20 ⁠warehouses owned by the company have been ‌attacked since July 18. Kyiv alleges that the online retailer, Russia’s largest, plays a crucial role in Moscow’s war effort by supplying dual-use items that can be used for military purposes. Later on Thursday, Ukraine’s President ⁠Volodymyr ⁠Zelenskyy said the military hit two oil ⁠refineries deep inside Russia, the ‌Bashneft-Novoil refinery in the republic of Bashkortostan and the ⁠Slavnet-Yanos refinery in ⁠the Yaroslavl region. Mikhail ‌Evrayev, the regional governor in Russia’s Yaroslavl ⁠region, said the ⁠oil refinery was on ⁠fire after it was a Ukrainian drone attack. In a ⁠statement on Telegram, he said emergency services were working to ⁠extinguish the ⁠blaze after ⁠falling debris struck the refinery’s storage ‌tanks. Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network