Banned from football at home, Afghan women's team reunite 8,000 miles away - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Asia China India Banned from football at home, Afghan women's team reunite 8,000 miles away Image source, Phil Walter/Getty Images Image caption, The Afghan women's football team gathered for the first time since Fifa ruled they could represent their country in official matches By Mahjooba Nowrouzi BBC News Afghan Languages , Reporting from Auckland, New Zealand Published 6 August 2026, 00:28 BST The changing room is busy with footballers going through their pre-match routines. Some stretch and tighten their boots, others embrace. "Be strong as always because we are representing Afghan women," says midfielder Fatima Haidari to fellow members of Afghan Women United. Applause erupts in the room where an Afghan flag hangs and a patriotic song is played. As the women sing along some struggle to hold back tears. There's a final team huddle with words of encouragement from their coach before they head out to the pitch – a place that for years they had been told they did not belong. The 23-player squad, selected from Afghan players now living abroad, has travelled to New Zealand for a training camp and to play two unofficial friendly games against the Cook Islands. This is the first time they have been together since football governing body Fifa ruled in April that they could represent their country in official matches in the future. Image source, Afghan Women United Image caption, The team hopes that in the future they will qualify for international competitions, such as the World Cup and the Olympics Previously, they would have needed the approval of the Afghanistan Football Federation. This was not possible under the Taliban, who returned to power in August 2021, imposing wide-ranging restrictions on women and girls, including barring them from secondary school and university, most professions and organised sport. The country's national women's team, formed in 2007, could no longer play and its members were among those evacuated and resettled in countries including Australia, the UK and Portugal. Years of campaigning led to the creation of a refugee team, which became Afghan Women United. Thanks to Fifa's ruling, it can now try to qualify for international competitions such as the Olympics and World Cup. Gathered in New Zealand, the squad is excited to be playing together - as asylum seekers living in various countries it has been hard for them to get the travel documents in order to train as a team over the past five years. Sitting in the hotel in Auckland the day before the match, Manozh Noori, who has short hair, wears a T-shirt and knee-length shorts - a look that she says has often drawn criticism from relatives for looking too masculine. As the 23-year-old speaks to BBC Global Women about her family, her voice begins to falter. She pauses, takes a deep breath and looks away for a moment before continuing. There are no tears, but the emotion is clear. Image caption, Manozh Noori buried her medals in her garden before she left Afghanistan Noori now lives in Australia but she grew up playing football with boys in the streets of Kabul. After seeing women's football on television, she secretly joined local clubs and gradually rose through the ranks in Afghanistan. She knew her older brother would disapprove so she tried to reduce the risk of being recognised by wearing a face covering. Over six years, she won league titles, national championships and individual awards. Eventually her success became impossible to hide. In about 2018 her fellow players persuaded her to remove her face covering for a TV interview, which was shown on the news along with highlights of their match. Then she had to face the reality that her brother might see it. "I was so scared," she recalls. "I kept thinking, 'He's going to see me. He's going to know.'" In desperation, she tried to stop the family from watching the news by turning off the electricity, but word soon reached her brother and he was furious, she says. "He was screaming," Noori says. "'You told us you were studying. You said you wanted to become a teacher or a doctor. What is this?'" He threatened to cut his ties with the family if she didn't stop, she adds. "My mother was crying. She told me, 'He's the person who supports us financially. How are we going to survive?'" Image source, Manozh Noori Image caption, Noori (in blue) used to wear a face mask to hide her identity when playing in Afghanistan Noori did stop playing for a while, but eventually started again. She says her other brother, who lives in Germany, sent money to help finance her dream. When the Taliban took over in 2021, Noori decided to flee, but first she buried her football medals and trophies in the garden of her family home. More than four years later, they remain there. "One day I will go back and dig them out," she says, briefly smiling at the thought. "Football helped me get my mum and sister out of Afghanistan," she says. Two years after she moved to Australia and established herself as a football player, she was able to bring them over as well. This meant her sister was able to study again - even though her brother didn't want them playing sports, he always supported their education. "I hope my brother now realises I am not a bad person," says Noori. Afghan Reunited: The fight for football BBC Global Women follows Afghan female footballers as they return to the pitch Watch on iPlayer Viewers outside the UK can watch on YouTube As she and the team prepare for the matches in Auckland, many of them describe football as the reason they survived one of the most turbulent periods in their country's recent history. "If I wasn't a footballer, I would still be in Afghanistan, one of millions of girls who are not allowed to study, speak up or choose their own future," says Mursal Sadat, who also lives in Australia. Now 24, she works as a football coach, youth facilitator and advocate for refugees, women's rights and human rights. Image caption, Mursal Sadat (kneeling right) was 19 when the Taliban returned to power - she was among those evacuated from Kabul in August 2021 In Afghanistan, she says she was often judged, harassed and told that no-one would want to marry a woman who played sport. Today she is engaged to a man who is still in Afghanistan, and says he and his family are supportive of her work and place on the national team. "They tell me, 'You are the pride of our family. We are so lucky to have you.'" As the players step out into the driving Auckland rain to face the Cook Islands, they channel their energy and determination, unfazed by the weather. They have faced much tougher conditions back home. As a teenager, defender Najma Arefi trained in temperatures above 45C (113F) because girls were often given the least desirable training slots. Still, she persisted. The 22-year-old's efforts eventually helped a Herat-based team win a national championship. The victory, she says, changed attitudes towards women's sport in the city. "There were billboards of us across Herat," she recalls. "People were proud. More families started letting their daughters play football." She now lives in Doncaster in northern England. She arrived in the UK after the Taliban takeover. She describes herself as an extrovert and says she now has opportunities she never imagined growing up in Afghanistan. Image source, Phil Walter/Getty Images Image caption, Najma Arefi, pictured during one of the matches against the Cook Islands, moved to the UK after the Taliban returned to power She studies criminal justice at college, plays football and makes decisions independently. "Having that freedom is incredible," she says. Yet she admits she often feels guilty and desperately sad about the freedoms denied to women back home. "Millions of girls don't have the chance to study or follow their dreams. I feel I have to make the most of every opportunity. "Sometimes I put too much pressure on myself," she says, tears rolling down her face. She thanks Khalida Popal, who founded the original Afghan women's team, for pushing Fifa to recognise them now they are in exile. "To receive Fifa's recognition without the approval of the Taliban" has made history, she says. This official status is "something I'll always be proud of", she says. When the BBC asked the Taliban's director for sports, Ahmadullah Wasiq, about Fifa backing the women's team, he declined to comment. But he said he would like Fifa to visit the country and resume its support for football there in general - the organisation largely withdrew after the Taliban came to power. Fifa has previously said any resumption of support would depend on women being allowed to play. The game in Auckland turns out to be unforgiving. A single goal in the first match hands the Cook Islands a 1-0 victory. Three days later, despite the Afghan team's best efforts, the Cook Islands win again, this time 3-0. Yet for the players, these matches represent something far more significant than two defeats. A return to the pitch and proof that despite exile, separation from their families and years of uncertainty, Afghanistan's women footballers refused to disappear. This is part of the Global Women series from the BBC World Service, sharing untold and important stories from around the globe Related topics Afghanistan Women's rights Women's rights in Afghanistan The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:49 Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales. 00:00:49, play video Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales 0:59 The city closing down streets so children can play. 00:00:59, play video The city closing down streets so children can play 1:23 The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII. 00:01:23, play video The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII 0:37 Crispy butter beans with whipped feta. 00:00:37, play video Crispy butter beans with whipped feta 0:57 Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites. 00:00:57, play video Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens Top stories Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at Army teen college Published 4 hours ago Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns Published 3 hours ago Live . Huge smoke plume over Russian city as Ukraine hits two oil refineries in long-range attacks 8642 viewing 8.6k viewing More to explore Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear in the office? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Rihanna is 'in the studio', says partner A$AP Rocky Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Families' anger at jailed funeral boss's apology letter Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Love shouldn't feel like fear How hydrated do you really need to be? Melvin Odoom on the MiniDiscs he can't throw away The origin story of the first Comic Con Most read 1 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 2 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at Army teen college 3 Meta becomes latest firm to say its AI hacked another company 4 Why phones on loudspeaker may become just another noise 5 'Plagiarism row professor resigns' and 'West End stab rampage' 6 Families' anger at jailed funeral boss's apology letter 7 Iran says deal with Oman on Strait of Hormuz is in final stages 8 Car washes and vape shops can still sponsor skilled foreign workers despite visa changes 9 The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon 10 Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: Should you wear them in the office? BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.