Fault lines for both parties emerge after Michigan’s primaries: From the Politics Desk IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Politics U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline From the Politics Desk Fault lines for both parties emerge after Michigan’s primaries: From the Politics Desk Plus, Bill Cassidy provides crucial support for Todd Blanche. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Add NBC News to Google Haley Stevens says there’s ‘no drama’ after primary loss to Abdul El-Sayed: Full interview 10:38 Get more news on Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 7, 2026, 5:18 PM EDT By The Politics Desk Welcome to From the Politics Desk , a daily newsletter that brings you the NBC News Politics team’s latest reporting and analysis from the White House, Capitol Hill and the campaign trail. In today’s edition, Kristen Welker looks ahead to November in swing state Michigan after this week’s primary battles. Plus, our Capitol Hill team reports on Sen. Bill Cassidy providing pivotal support for Todd Blanche. Sign up to receive this newsletter in your inbox every weekday here. — Adam Wollner Fault lines for both parties emerge after Michigan’s primaries Analysis by Kristen Welker This week’s Michigan primaries underscored some major challenges both parties will face in the general election in the perennial battleground state. Democrats are scrambling to come together after divisive contests, most notably in the Senate race, where progressive Abdul El-Sayed defeated moderate Rep. Haley Stevens . That work continues today as Michigan Democrats gather for a unity rally featuring former Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg . But it remains to be seen what other tangible steps Democrats will take to ensure their fractured party can maximize turnout in the fall. And as progressives like El-Sayed shift to the general election, Democrats will also be forced to contend with attacks from Republicans who are eager to tie candidates to the party’s ascendant democratic socialist wing (El-Sayed has stressed that he is not a socialist). Republicans, meanwhile, are navigating President Donald Trump ’s sagging approval ratings as voters continue to give him low marks on his handling of the economy and the Iran war. Those dynamics are unfolding in real time in one of the most competitive House races in the country: Michigan’s 7th District, which includes Lansing and is represented by GOP Rep. Tom Barrett . Trump carried this district by just 1 point in 2024. Progressive activist William Lawrence won the hotly contested Democratic primary there this week, and I asked him about those challenges facing the party on “Meet the Press NOW.” Lawrence, who recently let his membership in the Democratic Socialists of America lapse , said he plans to counter attacks from Republicans by staying “focused on issues here in the district that are appealing to people across the political spectrum,” including opposing data centers and the Iran war. Lawrence also said he would work with Democratic Sen. Elissa Slotkin , who used to represent the 7th District, even though he called Slotkin a “warmonger” and she endorsed one of his primary opponents. Lawrence said they “have a lot of common ground in our approach to politics.” I also spoke to Barrett on “Meet the Press NOW,” and he previewed how he plans to respond to Democrats’ attempts to tie him to Trump. Barrett stressed that he was one of the few Republicans who supported a war powers resolution amid the Iran war, and he acknowledged the conflict had led to higher gas prices. He also welcomed Trump’s endorsement, noting the president had recently visited the district. But Barrett declined to grade Trump’s economic performance, saying, “I wouldn’t say that we have made serious improvement to our economy. We took over in a very, very challenging time, but look, I’m not going to pretend that the work is done.” We’ll dive further into the battle ahead in Michigan on “Meet the Press” this Sunday, when I’ll interview El-Sayed. Sens. Jim Banks , R-Ind., and Chris Murphy , D-Conn., will also join us. Sen. Bill Cassidy, a critical Republican holdout, backs Todd Blanche for attorney general By Sahil Kapur, Rebecca Shabad and Brennan Leach Sen. Bill Cassidy , R-La., announced this morning that he will vote for President Donald Trump ’s pick of Todd Blanche for attorney general, likely assuring his confirmation. “All considered, I will vote for Mr. Blanche. I’ll be criticized for this vote. What’s new?” Cassidy said in a floor speech. While he’s “concerned about episodes of apparent lawfare,” Cassidy said, “even critics admit that Mr. Blanche knows the law and is a hands-on administrator.” Blanche needs support from 50 of the 53 Republican senators to be confirmed, assuming all Democrats oppose him. Earlier in the day, Sen. Lisa Murkowski , R-Alaska, joined fellow centrist Sen. Susan Collins , R-Maine, in opposition of Blanche. With Sen. Mitch McConnell , R-Ky., out indefinitely, a third GOP opponent would have blocked the nomination. Murkowski warned of the “politicization” and “even weaponization” of the Justice Department, which she said has accelerated under the Trump administration. “The country needs an Attorney General who will check the worst impulses of this administration. I hope Mr. Blanche is able to achieve that, if confirmed, but I simply do not have confidence that will be the case,” she said. Read more → 🗞️ Today's other top stories 🧳 Jobs report: The U.S. economy shed 23,000 jobs in July, a sign that the labor market had not stabilized after four months of positive growth. Read more → 🗳️ Election recap: Trump-backed Rep. Andy Ogles lost his GOP primary in Tennessee last night, while Sen. Marsha Blackburn won the Republican nomination in the state’s race for governor. 🔵 Threading the needle: Francesca Hong is walking back some of her past controversial positions, but not her democratic socialist brand, as she faces growing electability concerns ahead of next week’s Wisconsin gubernatorial primary. Read more → ☑️ The ayes have it: The Senate voted overwhelmingly to pass legislation to impose sanctions against Russia and Iran after months of fits and starts, with the death of Sen. Lindsey Graham providing the final push. Read more → 🗣️ ‘Smart guy’: Trump is standing by Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth for the time being, despite the Iran war’s unpopularity and some Republican misgivings. Read more → 🕺 Ballroom blitz: A federal appeals court affirmed a U.S. judge’s ruling to block construction of the White House ballroom while allowing below-ground work to move forward. Read more → ✈️ Extreme makeover: In contrast to some of Trump’s previous construction projects around the nation’s capital, his plan to renovate Washington Dulles International Airport received widespread praise, along with sighs of relief. Read more → That’s all From the Politics Desk for now. Today’s newsletter was compiled by Adam Wollner. If you have feedback — likes or dislikes — email us at politicsnewsletter@nbcuni.com And if you’re a fan, please share with everyone and anyone. They can sign up here . Share Add NBC News to Google The Politics Desk About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC