How to Get Rid of Bed Bugs | NBC Selected IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Top stories Owala’s back-to-school sale is here The best keratosis pilaris treatments for smoother skin Packing your skin care and makeup is so much easier with this toiletry bag How often should you change and wash your towels REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gearpost Walmart has up to 65% off back-to-school must-haves 35+ college-exclusive back-to-school deals Skip to Content About Us Wellness All Wellness Skin Care Hair Care Oral Care Health Fitness Sleep Home All Home Small appliances Bedding & bath Cleaning Vacuums Office Gardening Kitchen All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech All Tech Electronics Personal Tech TVs Audio Computers Cameras Pets All Pets Dogs Cats Pet Care Lifestyle All Lifestyle Sports Travel Parenting Apparel Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping Subscribe Share About Us Wellness Main Menu All Wellness Skin Care Wellness All Skin Care Hair Care Wellness All Hair Care Oral Care Wellness All Oral Care Health Wellness All Health Fitness Wellness All Fitness Sleep Wellness All Sleep Home Main Menu All Home Small appliances Home All Small appliances Bedding & bath Home All Bedding & bath Cleaning Home All Cleaning Vacuums Home All Vacuums Office Home All Office Gardening Kitchen Main Menu All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech Main Menu All Tech Electronics Tech All Electronics Personal Tech Tech All Personal Tech TVs Tech All TVs Audio Tech All Audio Computers Cameras Pets Main Menu All Pets Dogs Pets All Dogs Cats Pets All Cats Pet Care Pets All Pet Care Lifestyle Main Menu All Lifestyle Sports Travel Lifestyle All Travel Parenting Apparel Lifestyle All Apparel Footwear Lifestyle All Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales Main Menu All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories Main Menu All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides Main Menu All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping More from NBC Sign up for the Selected Newsletter Check out Shop TODAY NBC News TODAY About Help Careers Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information CA Notice Terms Of Service NBC News Sitemap Advertise Ad Choices Follow Selected © 2026 NBCNEWS.COM NBC Selected independently determines what we cover and recommend. When you click on or buy through our links, we earn a commission. Learn more . Bedding & Bath How to get rid of bed bugs, and what you can use to avoid getting them at all Don’t let these tiny bugs cause big problems. Updated Aug. 6, 2026, 11:49 AM EDT Bethany Heitman Commerce Editor Skip to table of contents The most common ways to pick up bed bugs is through travelling or bringing second-hand furniture into your home. Dmitrii Marchenko / Getty Images In this article The best products to protect you from bed bugs How do you get bed bugs? How to tell if you have bed bugs How to get rid of bed bugs Meet our cleaning experts Why trust NBC Selected? See 3 More No rodent or bug infestation is fun, but there is one type that may rank as one of the worst — bed bugs. While they are tiny, these insects can cause big problems. While some people don’t react poorly to bed bug bites, others will develop itchy red bumps. Additionally, these itty bitty bugs can spread rapidly, embedding themselves into mattresses , furniture and even clothing . You may have even heard horror stories of people having to throw out everything they own after a major infestation — something experts say is not necessary if you take the proper steps. Bed bugs are parasitic insects, which means they feed on blood, according to the Centers for Disease Control . They usually measure between 1 and 7 millimeters, and they can live several months without a meal. Oh, and they’re excellent at hiding — which can make getting rid of them very challenging. This is why I consulted pest control experts to ask them how to tell if you have bed bugs and what to do if you do. Keep reading to find out what they had to say, and for a list of products you can use to prevent bed bugs from taking up residence in your home in the first place. The best products to protect you from bed bugs Our experts recommend getting help from a professional if you have bed bugs (more on that later), but when it comes to preventing bed bugs, there are a few things you can do. First, if you’re traveling, check hotel bed frames and mattresses before placing your belongings on them, says Juan Rezk, chief marketing officer at Certus Pest in Tampa, Florida. You should do the same if you are bringing second-hand furniture into your house. Beyond this, there are a few products that can help prevent bed bugs from getting into your items. Check them out below. Utopia Bedding Premium Waterproof Bed Bug Mattress Cover 59,589 Amazon Reviews $ 20.30 $ 24.99 Amazon Now 19% off What to know What we like Zipper closure Waterproof Something to note Nothing to note at this time Encasing your mattress fully in an impermeable material can prevent bed bugs from getting in and taking up residence. This mattress cover fully encases your bed and zips closed. It’s available in all standard bed sizes and is also waterproof. It will accommodate mattresses up to 12 inches deep. Hospitalogy Pillow Encasement 5,727 Amazon Reviews $ 24.00 Amazon What to know What we like Set of two Easy to clean Something to note Nothing to note at this time Along with your mattress, you can encase your pillows to protect them from bed bugs. This comes with two pillowcase protectors that zip closed and are waterproof, according to the brand. They are available in standard, queen and king sizes. EcoPest Bed Bug Interceptors 4,311 Amazon Reviews $ 29.99 Amazon What to know What we like Quick setup Discrete Something to note Not for all bed frames Bed bugs can travel up the legs of your bed frame — which is exactly what these interceptors are made to prevent. You place one under each leg of your bed. Then, the idea is that the bed bugs climb them and get stuck on their slippery surface, according to the brand. Harris Bed Bug Killer Spray 13,548 Amazon Reviews $ 18.99 $ 26.43 Amazon Now 28% off What to know What we like Scent-free Long-lasting Something to note May not fully eliminate issue While our experts say bringing in a professional is the best way to get rid of bed bugs once you have them, it may give you peace of mind to also have this on hand until an exterminator can get into your home. This spray kills bed bugs and eggs on contact and lasts for up to 16 weeks after application, according to the brand. It is also scent-free and safe to use on mattresses and furniture. ShieldFlex Bed Bug Traps 689 Amazon Reviews $ 32.99 Amazon What to know What we like Easy to use Mess-free Something to note Nothing to note at this time Similar to the above spray, these traps (there are 12 in a set) can help in the time between when you discover the issue and are able to get an appointment with a pro. Bed bugs can easily climb into the plastic traps, but cannot climb out. The traps can be placed on the floor, beneath furniture legs or under mattresses. They are pet-safe and mess-free, according to the brand. When you detect bugs in the trap, simply throw it out and put down a new one. Related selected selected The best mouse traps that we hope you never need to buy Want more from NBC Selected? Sign up for our newsletter, The Selection, and shop smarter. How do you get bed bugs? Think of bed bugs as unwelcome hitchhikers who catch a lift into your space. “Hotels and airports together with rideshares represent the primary sources of bed bug infestations,” says Rezk. “However, bed bugs can also use used furniture as transportation and can infest multi-unit buildings.” The biggest problem: Because they are so small, you likely won’t even know you’ve picked up bed bugs until you have a problem in your home. “They crawl into bags and seams and ride home with you. That’s why even the cleanest house can get them,” says Nicole Carpenter, a pest control professional and the president at Black Pest Prevention in Charlotte, North Carolina How to tell if you have bed bugs The most common way to discover a bed bug problem is when people start noticing bites on their skin. “Bed bug bites tend to form lines or clusters on your skin,” says Rezk. That said, not everyone has a bad reaction to bed bug bites. Another common way to tell if you have them is to look at your sheets or mattress. “Look at the seams and the corners of your mattress or behind the headboard,” says Carpenter. “You’ll see little rusty spots, shed skins, or even live ones if it’s bad.” According to our experts, you may also notice a musty, slightly sweet odor in your sleeping area or spot little black dots on your sheets, which is their excrement. How to get rid of bed bugs Discovered bed bugs? Before you freak out and start tossing everything, take a deep breath. If you start rapidly moving furniture around, you could cause the bugs to spread, says Rezk. Instead, carefully take off your bedding and put it in a plastic trash bag until you can wash it in hot water. Then, give your mattress a thorough vacuum — the same goes for any cloth furniture you have. “Bed bugs display a strong resistance to homemade removal techniques so any missed eggs will restart the infestation process,” says Rezk. So, after you do the above steps, you’re going to want to call a professional (you can use the Harris Bed Bug Killer Spray or ShieldFlex Bed Bug Traps in the meantime). “Bed bugs aren’t something you can really handle on your own — they hide in walls, outlets, furniture joints, and can go months without eating,” says Carpenter. “The only real way to wipe them out is heat, and pros do that with big heaters that crank the whole room up past 120 degrees Fahrenheit.” Meet our cleaning experts At NBC Selected, we work with experts with specialized knowledge and authority based on relevant training and/or experience. We also ensure all expert advice and recommendations are made independently and without undisclosed financial conflicts of interest. Juan Rezk is the chief marketing officer at Certus Pest in Tampa, Florida. Nicole Carpenter is a pest control professional and the president at Black Pest Prevention in Charlotte, North Carolina. Why trust NBC Selected? I’m a commerce editor at NBC Selected and a journalist who regularly covers beauty, home and lifestyle. I have recently reported on vibration plates and red light therapy for hair loss . For this story, I interviewed two pest control experts about how to prevent and get rid of bed bugs. Catch up on NBC Selected’s in-depth coverage of tech and tools , wellness and more, and follow us on Facebook , Instagram , Twitter and TikTok to stay up to date. Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off Bethany Heitman Bethany Heitman is a commerce editor at NBC Selected. Cyclosporiasis cases have now been reported in 47 states — here’s what to do if you have the lettuce linked to it How to get rid of bed bugs, and what you can use to avoid getting them at all 1.5 million cartons of eggs have been recalled for Salmonella — here’s what you need to know (and do) to stay safe Latest articles Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off In this article The best products to protect you from bed bugs How do you get bed bugs? How to tell if you have bed bugs How to get rid of bed bugs Meet our cleaning experts Why trust NBC Selected? ABOUT CONTACT HELP CAREERS PRIVACY POLICY DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION CA NOTICE TERMS OF SERVICE NBC NEWS SITEMAP AD CHOICES ADVERTISE DEALS & SALES SKIN CARE HEALTH TECH NBCNews.com © 2026 SELECTED | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.