Exiled PM vows to return to Bangladesh despite execution threat | Sheikh Hasina | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 4 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Opponents burn an effigy of Sheikh Hasina in Dhaka during her address to journalists in Delhi on Wednesday. Photograph: Mohammad Ponir Hossain/Reuters View image in fullscreen Opponents burn an effigy of Sheikh Hasina in Dhaka during her address to journalists in Delhi on Wednesday. Photograph: Mohammad Ponir Hossain/Reuters Sheikh Hasina Exiled PM vows to return to Bangladesh despite execution threat Sheikh Hasina plans a December comeback two years after being ousted in a bloody uprising led by students Penelope MacRae in Delhi Wed 5 Aug 2026 13.45 EDT Last modified on Wed 5 Aug 2026 14.46 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Bangladesh’s ousted prime minister Sheikh Hasina has vowed to return home by the end of the year, even though she faces a death sentence. “They may put me in a cell. They may kill me. Anything may happen, but still I have to go,” said Hasina, two years after a student-led uprising toppled her government. Hasina, 78, who has lived under tight security in India since fleeing Dhaka, said on Wednesday she would return in December – Bangladesh’s “month of victory”, marking the defeat of Pakistani forces in the 1971 war of independence. “Whatever fate awaits me, I will return to my people,” the former Awami League leader told a news conference at the Foreign Correspondents’ Club of South Asia in Delhi, speaking via audio link. View image in fullscreen Sheikh Hasina, the then newly elected prime minister, speaking at a press conference in Dhaka in January 2024. Photograph: Mohammad Ponir Hossain/Reuters Her son, Sajeeb Wazed Joy, told the news conference she was being treated well in exile. “She is staying with the full services and security of a head of state,” he said. “Prime minister [Narendra] Modi’s government has shown her the utmost respect, and for that I am eternally grateful.” The exiled Awami league members plotting a political comeback in Bangladesh – from India Read more India officially distanced itself from the news conference, saying it had no role in organising it and did not endorse the political views expressed. India has been walking a diplomatic tightrope over Hasina, who was one of its closest regional allies. Bilateral ties have deteriorated sharply since her downfall and India has been seeking to mend relations with Bangladesh while resisting demands for her extradition. Hasina’s flight ended more than 15 years of increasingly authoritarian Awami League rule. The Bangladesh Nationalist party, led by Tarique Rahman, the son of the former prime minister Khaleda Zia, swept to power earlier this year in an election that barred the Awami League. The government has said Hasina would probably be arrested the moment she set foot in Bangladesh. View image in fullscreen Sajeeb Wazed Joy, the son of Sheikh Hasina, addressing the Foreign Correspondents’ Club of South Asia on Wednesday via video link. Photograph: Anushree Fadnavis/Reuters Last November, Bangladesh’s international crimes tribunal sentenced her to death in absentia for crimes against humanity over the violent suppression of the protests. The demonstrations began over government-job quotas and snowballed into a mass movement against Hasina’s government. The UN estimates up to 1,400 people may have died. Hasina’s supporters say the death toll was about 800. She has rejected the court’s verdict as politically motivated and said the execution threat would not change her plans. Hasina was imprisoned several times during her fierce rivalry with Zia, who died in 2025. The two women traded claims of using corruption cases and arrests against each other in a “Battle of the Begums”, an honorific title for a senior woman. View image in fullscreen Sheikh Hasina, right, and her former political foe, Khaleda Zia, at a wedding reception in Bangladesh in 1997. Photograph: Reuters Bangladesh has prohibited domestic media from broadcasting or publishing Hasina’s statements. She has demanded that the ban on the Awami League be lifted, political prisoners be released and “false cases” against party activists be dropped. Claiming Bangladesh is sinking into lawlessness and economic ruin, she accuses the new government of trying to erase the country’s secular character. The government has been grappling with high inflation and sluggish economic growth while blaming many of the country’s problems on alleged corruption and mismanagement during Hasina’s years in power. Explore more on these topics Sheikh Hasina Bangladesh India South and central Asia news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story India-Bangladesh relations hit new low over exiled PM’s speech to press in Delhi 5d ago Tarique Rahman sworn in as Bangladeshi prime minister 17 Feb 2026 Bangladesh election: BNP wins historic first vote since overthrow of Hasina 13 Feb 2026 Bangladesh Nationalist Party wins pivotal election – in pictures 13 Feb 2026 Tarique Rahman promises era of clean politics as Bangladesh holds first election since fall of Hasina 12 Feb 2026 ‘Women’s freedoms are at stake’: concern at rise of Islamist party before Bangladesh election 11 Feb 2026 The exiled Awami league members plotting a political comeback in Bangladesh – from India 3 Feb 2026 Ousted Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina sentenced to death for crimes against humanity 17 Nov 2025 ‘She should answer for what she did’: trial of ex-Bangladeshi leader Sheikh Hasina begins 2 Aug 2025 Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)