Iran’s president denies threatening to resign during talks over strait of Hormuz | Iran | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness The Iranian president, Masoud Pezeshkian, has rejected the idea he and the country’s supreme leader cannot work together. Photograph: Iranian Presidential Office Handout/EPA View image in fullscreen The Iranian president, Masoud Pezeshkian, has rejected the idea he and the country’s supreme leader cannot work together. Photograph: Iranian Presidential Office Handout/EPA Iran Iran’s president denies threatening to resign during talks over strait of Hormuz Masoud Pezeshkian dismisses talk of internal rift as hardline Assembly of Experts call US negotiations ‘futile’ Middle East crisis live – latest updates Patrick Wintour Diplomatic editor Tue 4 Aug 2026 14.24 EDT Last modified on Tue 4 Aug 2026 14.38 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Masoud Pezeshkian, Iran’s president, has been forced to deny claims that he has repeatedly threatened to resign as he battles hardline factions opposed to reaching a settlement with the US over the strait of Hormuz. The US and Europe hope a deal is imminent to reopen the strait and they are putting pressure on Oman to accept a temporary agreement that officials in Muscat fear will leave Iran retaining near permanent dominance of the vital oil shipping channel. Ships would enter the strait in a route close to Iran, but leave on a route that passes through Iranian and Omani waters. But far from being feted over an imminent diplomatic victory, Pezeshkian was instead forced to deny that he had repeatedly offered to resign, verbally and in writing, during a television interview marking his second anniversary in the job. Pezeshkian accused some of wishing to create a rift inside Iran and said: “If I want to resign, I will officially announce that I have resigned. I will not resign, I will stand.” View image in fullscreen An anti-US billboard at Enghelab Square in central Tehran, Iran. Photograph: Abedin Taherkenareh/EPA The resignation claims, which have been front page news in Iran, were made by Mohammad Bagher Kharazi, who is linked by marriage to Mojtaba Khamenei , the new supreme leader. He said Pezeshkian had become frustrated at being excluded from decision making, made worse by the supreme leader’s reluctance to reveal his whereabouts for fear of foreign intelligence agencies. Khamenei was badly injured in the Israeli bombing on the first day of the war that killed his father and has not been seen or heard in public since. Trump meets his obstinate match in Iran’s hardball regime Read more Kharazi claimed Pezeshkian had threatened to quit so many times that Khamenei warned him he would accept the next resignation threat, a claim Khamenei’s office eventually said on Tuesday was “fundamentally false and untrue”. Pezeshkian insisted in the interview that he was in complete harmony with the military and said those that claimed 30,000 people had been killed in the January protests never took up the offer to provide proof. The interview, marking the halfway point of his turbulent presidency, appeared to be an attempt to dispel the impression that his belief in consensus was a weakness, or that he had been sidelined by hardline war leaders. Kharazi is the brother-in-law of Massoud Khamenei, the younger brother of the supreme leader. Critics say he has a record of making unsubstantiated allegations and despite his family connections to the supreme leader, it is not clear if he has seen him since his elevation to the post in March . However, the row has highlighted the deep strategic and tactical differences inside Iran over the wisdom of talks with the US. Mehdi Tabatabaei, a senior member of the Iranian president’s office, described the reports as “complete nonsense and lies”. In a post on social media, he condemned a “sinister coalition of lying, deceitful and reckless extremism”whose members could not accept democratic outcomes. He said: “Two years have passed since their failure in the arena of national elections, yet they are still seeking revenge against the will of the nation. They have become puppets of Iran’s enemies.” Ahmad Zeidabadi, a reformist reporter, said the claims were inflammatory and served only to exacerbate tensions. Pezeshkian on Sunday suggested that the memorandum of understanding, negotiated with the US in June and reviled by some hardliners, would serve as a cornerstone for Iranian foreign relations in the future, saying that Iran “must strive to compel the enemy to remain committed to what it has signed”. On Monday, the conservative-dominated Assembly of Experts issued a statement describing hopes for an agreement or understanding with the US as “futile” and labelled what it termed “whispers of capitulation in the name of defending peace” an “unforgivable betrayal”. It added that trusting this arrogant government was nothing more than a mirage. Khamenei himself had said in April he was opposed to talks with the US in principle, but in deference to Pezeshkian had allowed them to go ahead. Explore more on these topics Iran Middle East and north Africa Mojtaba Khamenei Strait of Hormuz news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story US and Qatar report progress on Iran ceasefire and reopening Hormuz strait 1d ago Jerusalem’s most important Muslim religious site facing ‘imminent’ threat of Israeli takeover, says Jordan 1d ago Trump meets his obstinate match in Iran’s hardball regime 2d ago Trump backs down on Iran strikes in expectation of ‘rapidly’ reaching a deal 3d ago Iran strikes tankers under US escort in Hormuz strait as Trump gathers cabinet to discuss war 5d ago Iran’s war with the US is not its only conflict as internal crises mount 6d ago US hits dozens of targets in Iran overnight as peace efforts under threat 6d ago US-Saudi strikes in Iraq push region into ‘uncharted territory’, analysts warn 29 Jul 2026 US joins forces with Saudis to strike Tehran-backed militias in Iraq 29 Jul 2026 Trump warns of return to ‘strong military action’ if Iran diplomacy fails 27 Jul 2026 Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)