Jos Buttler: How England man became T20 cricket's GOAT - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs The Hundred Men's Scores & Fixtures Women's Scores & Fixtures Men's Tables Women's Tables Squads How Buttler became T20 cricket's run-scoring GOAT Figure caption, Record-breaking Buttler powers Super Giants to emphatic win over Fire By Elizabeth Botcherby , BBC Sport journalist and Mike Peter , BBC Sport journalist at Old Trafford Published 2 hours ago He did it with a six, of course. Jos Buttler thrashed Marco Jansen's ball over square leg and on to the balcony of the hotel behind the stand at Old Trafford. That shot helped the England white-ball great move to 14,833 runs in T20 cricket, surpassing Kieron Pollard's mark of 14,803 to become the highest run-scorer in the format's history. The Manchester Super Giants number three went on to make 51 from 20 balls, another superb innings in a remarkable 522-match career in the sport's shortest format. The 35-year-old is in a sparkling run of form in T20s, making 50+ scores in three of his last four Hundred matches - which count towards T20 stats - and hammering a 64-ball 131 in his most recent international outing, a victory over India at Southampton last month. BBC Sport takes a look at the statistics that put the former England white-ball captain among the greats of the T20 game, and the reasons behind his remarkable longevity. Surpassing modern-day heavyweights Gayle & Pollard The race, whether stated or not, has been on since 2022. That was when Chris Gayle, the charismatic West Indies opener who blazed a trail in the shortest format, played his last professional game, setting a mark of 14,562 runs in T20 cricket. Buttler was always one of the leading candidates to take the record down. However, it was another West Indian in T20 journeyman Pollard, 39, who beat him to it, passing Gayle's total in June and extending the record to 14,803 over the course of the Major League Cricket season. Pollard had the advantage as the leading appearance maker in the format with 741 - 139 more than Sunil Narine in second place. Buttler sits ninth on that list with 522 appearances and while he is England's highest T20 appearance maker with 160 caps, he doesn't hold the record for most appearances in the format by an Englishman. That goes to Alex Hales, who has made 528 appearances and was another candidate to break the record - he has 14,429 runs to his name and sits fourth in the all-time list. Buttler's total includes 1,192 runs scored in 31 matches in The Hundred, with cricket statisticians including data from the competition in T20 records. How it all began It all started in Hyderabad, curiously enough. Playing in the short-lived Champions League Twenty20 in 2009, Somerset debutant Buttler, who had recently turned 19, emerged at number nine against New South Wales. A single driven down the ground off Moises Henriques was the first of six runs that day, finishing unbeaten as his side closed on 111 and then lost the match within 12 overs. When he made his England debut, almost two years later in Manchester, he wasn't called upon to bat as the home side beat India. Indeed, he didn't bat in three of his first four T20I appearances. Buttler's first taste of life in international cricket was as a lower-order finisher, and his first runs for England in that India series were 13 from number seven. He started slowly, with an unbeaten 32 against South Africa - his one score higher than 15 in his first 11 innings at international level. However, former England team-mate Dawid Malan said Buttler's qualities were always evident. "He started young [he was 20 when he made his England debut]. He always had the scoops and power and he's developed with the modern game," said Malan. "He's never been left behind and he's almost been at the forefront of pushing the modern game and what players can do." Buttler's first half-century for England came against New Zealand in 2013, though it took until the 2021 T20 World Cup for his first ton - against Sri Lanka in Sharjah, off 67 balls. Hungry for runs - year after year While Buttler has been remarkably consistent in the format - he has averaged fewer than 30 in just one of the past 12 calendar years (2017) - he has really kicked on since 2021, a period which has brought all nine of his T20 tons. Having emerged as a late-order hitter, his run-scoring became even more prolific when he moved up the order to open the batting for his respective teams. His record in the powerplay is superb, with an average of 43 in the first six overs of the innings and, of all the English batters to have more than 1,000 powerplay runs in the format, only two better Buttler's average, albeit having played considerably less cricket (Tom Westley and Kevin Pietersen). And if he's still around during the death overs, Buttler is even more destructive - striking at 184 between overs 16 and 20 compared to 143 at the top of the innings. It is all based around some very simple principles. "Jos Buttler's whole philosophy is to hit the ball on the off side," said Malan. "When you speak to him about batting he is very big on looking off side and, at the death in particular, he's always looking to hit the sightscreen flat. That is weird because generally players are trying to hit the ball high and out of the ground. "But by doing that [looking to hit the sightscreen flat] he is pushing his left hip at the bowler. He has two things he believes in; hitting the sightscreen and doing that. He gets himself into positions where he's so strong with his base that he can find the ball with his hands." Image source, CricViz Image caption, Here is an example of Jos Buttler's stance in the final overs of an innings, when he is looking to hit the ball for six. As Dawid Malan says, Buttler likes to use his left hip to generate power to hit the ball down the ground Ex-England paceman Steven Finn pointed to Buttler's wristy style of play as he added: "The first time I bowled at him in the nets, the ball just made a different sound of his bat. "The way he turns his wrists and hockey slaps it when he hits a cover drive or when he hits a six down the ground, he's got such strong wrists which I think makes him a bit different to other batters who are more classical with the way they hit the ball." It is a technique honed in all forms of cricket at the highest level. "One of the things that people forget is Jos Buttler played 57 Tests for England," said Malan. "He learned his batsmanship through that and learned how to build an innings and how to win games of cricket. "That education, mixed with his power, means he's able to transfer that to his white-ball cricket." A man of few weaknesses and calm under pressure Perhaps Buttler's greatest strength is his lack of weakness against any particular form of bowling. Against seam from either hand and versus off-break and slow left-arm spin, the difference in his average is within a margin of a run, sitting between 37 and 38. Only against leg-break bowling does his average tail off a little, but only to a still respectable 31.31, while he is prolific against the uncommon left-arm unorthodox spin, averaging 48.20. His boundary ball percentage is marginally better against seam, sitting in the low 20s as opposed to the mid-teens against spin. His strike-rate is best against the right-arm seamers, against whom he has scored almost 50% of his runs - reflective of the type of bowlers he faces in the powerplay. Buttler is particularly dismissive of the short ball - averaging 74 against it since 2021 - while of players to have more than 500 runs in the same period, only Pakistan's Mohammad Rizwan averages more against short-pitched bowling. It's quite staggering that fellow white-ball legends Trent Boult, Matt Henry and Sam Curran have never dismissed Buttler in T20 cricket and only two men have got the better of him more than five times - India duo Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Varun Chakaravarthy. Afghanistan's Rashid Khan has the best strike-rate against Buttler - removing him six times in just 82 deliveries. "He's captained and played all around the world and he's been a marquee player," said Malan. "When you are the marquee player in the team, you get paid the most and the expectation from the owners, captains, coaches and team-mates is that you're going to go out and score runs every single time - and the pressure that comes with that is immense. "His whole life, he's been able to deal with pressure. That just makes it all the more remarkable what he's done." Where next? Buttler turns 36 on 8 September, and will be 38 by the time the next edition of the T20 World Cup arrives in late 2028. Of the ICC full members, only Afghanistan carried a player of that age in the 2026 competition, but Buttler has shown few signs of decline and is likely to be part of England's party travelling to Australia and New Zealand. He struggled in the World Cup earlier this year, averaging 10.87 from eight matches, but with the tournament returning to the grounds where Buttler led his country to victory in 2022, don't count against him lifting the trophy for a second time. Related topics Cricket England Men's Cricket Team The Hundred Lancashire More on this story All our Hundred Who Am I? quizzes in one place Published 16 hours ago 'Five reasons why the Baz-Buttler combo is right for England' Published 22 January 2025 Get cricket news sent straight to your phone Published 8 June Shorts Previous Next 0:46 Chelsea's16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli. 00:00:46, play video Chelsea's16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli 1:15 How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? 00:01:15, play video How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? 0:36 Salah mobbed by fans on arrival for Trabzonspor move. 00:00:36, play video Salah mobbed by fans on arrival for Trabzonspor move 0:38 What is the 'Bra-gate' controversy in cycling? 00:00:38, play video What is the 'Bra-gate' controversy in cycling? 0:30 Wilkinson's Welsh language progress. 00:00:30, play video Wilkinson's Welsh language progress 1:00 What has happened to Kulusevski? 00:01:00, play video What has happened to Kulusevski? 0:23 Why Monga chose Man City over Arsenal. 00:00:23, play video Why Monga chose Man City over Arsenal 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:50 Goodburn to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea. 00:00:50, play video Goodburn to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea Top stories Fifa admits mistakes but Infantino remains president Published 29 minutes ago Newcastle appoint Jaissle - what should fans expect? Published 3 hours ago Sloppy Arsenal suffer in Real Betis friendly loss Elsewhere on the BBC Superman 1978: The classic superhero blockbuster What did we learn from D4vd's preliminary hearing? Follow police investigations from the 999 call to conviction Undressing the hidden history of underwear Elsewhere in Sport Newcastle appoint Jaissle - what should fans expect? Lines to be first British woman in America's Cup team for 90 years How Buttler became T20 cricket's run-scoring GOAT Why Liverpool are ready to make Barcola third £100m signing No WSL experience but who is new Man Utd boss Olid? What happens next with Rashford and Man Utd? Why £1m-a-season deal will be hard for Pollock and Hearn to find A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season Runs and records galore as Sunrisers beat Spirit. Video Runs and records galore as Sunrisers beat Spirit Why we are still waiting for the 'Newey effect' - F1 Q&A The summer that changed Welsh football The ex-sandwich maker who cycles to Champions League games How Mumbai Indians takeover has affected MI London & Surrey 'No guarantees' - joyful Glasgow cannot banish all Commonwealth doubts Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.