Author Lynda La Plante banned from driving for six months - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions London Author La Plante banned from driving for six months Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Crime author Lynda La Plante appeared in Lavender Hill Magistrates' Court on Monday over speeding offences Published 3 August 2026 Best-selling crime author Lynda La Plante has been disqualified from driving for six months, despite tearfully telling the court a ban would end her writing career. The 83-year-old author and screenwriter told Lavender Hill Magistrates' Court she needed her car to meet criminals and sources for research into her next works of fiction. La Plante said a ban would also stop her driving to take her guard dog Theo for a walk in Roehampton Playing Fields - an emotional strain which would lead her to stop writing altogether. She pleaded guilty on Monday to breaking the 20mph speed limit near her home in Kingston-upon-Thames five times between November 2025 and April this year. 'I would just stop' The court heard she already had nine points on her licence, from three speeding offences in June 2023 and then June and July 2025. She told the court she believed she would have to have the dog rehomed if she was unable to drive him to his daily walks, saying: "I think the emotional turmoil of that would truly damn my career as a writer. "It's very, very solitary and I work exceptionally hard and I would just stop." La Plante, who is best known for creating Prime Suspect's no-nonsense Det Ch Insp Jane Tennison, admitted driving at 24mph twice, 25mph, 26mph and 27mph in the latest offences, which all happened as she was on her way to take her dog for his daily walk. Giving evidence, La Plante said she got her dog Theo after suffering the devastation of the untimely death of another dog, Hugo. Fighting back tears, she said she "lost it" when Hugo died and she "didn't know what to do with [her] life". She added her new dog had helped her through the grieving process. Image source, PA Media Image caption, Ahead of her court hearing, La Plante complained about "very confusing" road signs on the A308 in Kingston-upon-Thames However, magistrate Mandy Lamplough told the writer she had not done enough to prove that disqualification would cause her "exceptional hardship". La Plante was fined £3,330 and given a six-month ban because the total points on her licence had risen to 24. In addition, she was ordered her to pay £130 costs and a £1,332 victim surcharge. Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook , external , X , external and Instagram , external . Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk , external Related topics London Kingston upon Thames More on this story La Plante leaves Prime Suspect prequel Published 2 November 2016 Related internet links HM Courts & Tribunals Service From other local news sites Influencer sobs in court as he denies robbing man of designer watch External London Evening Standard Warning of major disruption over Bank Holiday weekend due to strikes External London Evening Standard Man in 30s left fighting for life in hospital after serious assault in Stratford External Newham Recorder Five of the biggest planning proposals made across Havering in 2026 so far External Romford Recorder The Art Deco cinema that became an iconic venue played by Arctic Monkeys and Rihanna External Wimbledon Guardian Why small monthly donations make a big difference to St Luke’s Hospice External Kilburn Times Information about BBC links to other news sites The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:34 Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents. 00:00:34, play video Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents 1:05 What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident. 00:01:05, play video What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident 0:29 How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 00:00:29, play video How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 1:27 Are older and younger generations in conflict? 00:01:27, play video Are older and younger generations in conflict? 1:18 Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 00:01:18, play video Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 0:48 Model's photos used to catfish women. 00:00:48, play video Model's photos used to catfish women 1:29 The inventor who refused to take no for an answer. 00:01:29, play video The inventor who refused to take no for an answer 1:07 How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 00:01:07, play video How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 1:01 E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths. 00:01:01, play video E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths 1:07 NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England. 00:01:07, play video NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England 0:52 Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion. 00:00:52, play video Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion 0:59 Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation. 00:00:59, play video Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation 0:35 Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend. 00:00:35, play video Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend 1:25 Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings. 00:01:25, play video Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings 0:55 Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 00:00:55, play video Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 0:48 Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances. 00:00:48, play video Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances 1:16 GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview. 00:01:16, play video GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview 1:07 What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 00:01:07, play video What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 0:58 '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 00:00:58, play video '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 0:29 Where does salmonella get its name? 00:00:29, play video Where does salmonella get its name? Top stories Live . Rescue efforts enter fifth day on Nepal-Tibet border with more than 2,400 missing after flash flood 1173 viewing 1.2k viewing At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot Published 3 hours ago Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor Published 7 hours ago More to explore Dolly Parton's dad couldn't read - it inspired her to send books to millions of children Sweetcorn ice creams and pastries: The latest 'swavoury' trend taking over your feed How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works We helped create UK emergency alert system - but question how government is using it Hypermobility - the little-known 'bendy disease' that causes pain and fatigue Strong winds and thunderstorms kick off the bank holiday weekend 'I thought diet clubs weren't for men' Embroidery on display as town celebrates conqueror Royal Watch: Get the latest royal stories and analysis with Sean Coughlan’s weekly newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Low-key noughties sitcom starring Robert Webb and Paula Wilcox Keith Richards recalls how he wrote the iconic 'Satisfaction' An unlikely gang set out to catch a killer who shattered rural peace Did Emily ruin Paris? Most read 1 Rescue to continue overnight for 'in distress' vessel carrying five in the Channel 2 Sarah Ferguson expected back in the UK 'shortly', source says 3 Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor 4 I've been to Gamescom six times - here's what excited me this year 5 'Healey eyes banks and oil tax' and 'X Factor comeback' 6 Norway's new king remembers 'my dear father' in first speech 7 How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works 8 They fell in love - then had to check they weren't brother and sister 9 Man dies after train hits van on crossing 10 At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.