Disney hands TikTok creators the keys to its film, TV library - Türkiye Today LATEST COLUMNISTS NATION Politics Defense Diplomacy Diaspora Minorities REGION Europe Turkic World Middle East Balkans WORLD Africa Americas Asia & Pacific Conflicts BUSINESS Economy Finance Energy Tourism Tech Automotive LIFESTYLE Education Health Environment Travel Food Science CULTURE History Cinema Music Events Portraits Reviews SPORTS Football Basketball Volleyball Motorsports VISUALS Photo Video Infographic Newsletters USD/TRY 47.74 +0.04% culture Set as preferred source NEWSLETTERS LATEST COLUMNISTS NATION Politics Defense Diplomacy Diaspora Minorities REGION Europe Turkic World Middle East Balkans WORLD Africa Americas Asia & Pacific Conflicts BUSINESS Economy Finance Energy Tourism Tech Automotive LIFESTYLE Education Health Environment Travel Food Science CULTURE History Cinema Music Events Portraits Reviews SPORTS Football Basketball Volleyball Motorsports VISUALS Photo Video Infographic Home Culture Disney hands TikTok creators the keys to its film, TV library Disney+ and TikTok, appear on a smartphone screen(Adobe Stock Photo) By Newsroom with AA August 06, 2026 11:02 AM GMT+03:00 Set as preferred source T he Walt Disney Company and TikTok announced Wednesday a global content-sharing agreement that will let participating creators produce short-form videos using scenes and other material from Disney films and television shows. The program will first be tested in the United States in the coming months before expanding to other markets, the companies said in a joint announcement. TikTok will give creators access to assets from hundreds of productions in Disney's content library, allowing them to use characters, scenes and stories from franchises including Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars and FX. Creator videos made through the program will be published on TikTok and featured in a curated feed on Verts, the vertical-video feature within the Disney+ mobile app. Content on Disney+ will be refreshed regularly to reflect current fan discussions and encourage subscribers to explore more of the company's catalog. Financial terms of the agreement were not disclosed. Disney Chief Marketing and Brand Officer Asad Ayaz said, "The best storytellers are fans first," adding, "This collaboration creates a new bridge between the stories we tell and the creativity they inspire." TikTok Global Head of Entertainment Dawn Yang said creators have helped extend the life of films and television shows by turning them into discussions other fans can discover and share. "Together with Disney, we're bringing the authentic creator expression of the TikTok community to Disney+," she said. More to Read Turkish drama ‘Far Away’ dominates daytime TV in Italy and Colombia Culture 1 min read Next James Bond actor to be revealed by end of 2026 Culture 1 min read 'Spider-Man: Brand New Day' gains IMAX screens as 'The Odyssey' run ends Culture 1 min read 'Spider-Man: Brand New Day' hauls in $927M in worldwide opening Culture 1 min read Vin Diesel calls 'Fast Forever' script best in decades Culture 1 min read Ambassador program for creators The companies will also launch a jointly managed Disney Creator Ambassador Program. Selected creators will receive greater visibility, access to exclusive events, career development opportunities and other rewards, according to the announcement. Disney and TikTok said fan-created videos are playing a growing role in how audiences discover and engage with entertainment. TikTok's internal data showed users shared an average of 6.5 million film- and television-related posts on the platform daily last year. Nearly half of viewers in a separate survey said they later watched a film or television program after discovering related content on TikTok. Disney launched Verts for Disney+ subscribers in the U.S. in March as a mobile-first vertical feed, initially letting users swipe through scenes from Disney+ productions, add titles to their watchlists or begin watching directly. Disney said at the time it planned to expand Verts beyond content discovery by adding creator-produced videos and other short-form formats. August 06, 2026 11:02 AM GMT+03:00 More From Türkiye Today Turkish drama ‘Far Away’ dominates daytime TV in Italy and Colombia Culture 1 min read Next James Bond actor to be revealed by end of 2026 Culture 1 min read 'Spider-Man: Brand New Day' gains IMAX screens as 'The Odyssey' run ends Culture 1 min read 'Spider-Man: Brand New Day' hauls in $927M in worldwide opening Culture 1 min read × Share This Page Copy Link NATION Politics Defense Diplomacy Diaspora Minorities REGION Europe Turkic World Middle East Balkans WORLD Africa Americas Asia & Pacific Conflicts BUSINESS Economy Finance Energy Tourism Tech Automotive LIFESTYLE Education Health Environment Travel Food Science CULTURE History Cinema Music Events Portraits Reviews SPORTS Football Basketball Volleyball Motorsports OPINION Columns Op-Ed Editorial VISUALS Photo Video Infographic About Us Newsletters Contact Us Jobs Privacy Advertise RSS Report Bug © 2026 Ihlas Media Group. All Rights Reserved