Mass funeral in Gaza for 112 Palestinians killed in 2023 Israeli strike - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat World Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East Mass funeral in Gaza for 112 Palestinians killed in 2023 Israeli strike Figure caption, Watch: Funeral for 112 people takes place in Gaza City By Yolande Knell Middle East correspondent , Reporting from Jerusalem Published 4 August 2026, 14:59 BST Updated 7 hours ago Large crowds turned out in Gaza City for a mass funeral for 112 people, mostly women and children, who were killed in an Israeli strike on a residential block in late 2023, early in the Gaza war. The bodies - belonging to members of two extended families - have only recently been recovered from under the rubble in a two-week-long operation. Dramatic footage showed the remains lined up in rows, each victim covered with a Palestinian flag and some with a photo of the dead, before relatives carried them away. The funeral is said to be the biggest of its kind to have taken place in Gaza. "I think this is a feeling that was supposed [to be felt], a feeling of pain, grief and loss," said one mourner, Ali Abu Sharia. "After we managed to retrieve them and bury them, perhaps we can be partially relieved despite the pain of loss and all we're still living through." Forty-four children, 38 women and seven people with disabilities were listed among the dead from the Abu Sharia and Hassayna families, who are one clan. They were killed when a residential block in the Sabra neighbourhood of Gaza City was attacked by Israel on 22 November 2023. It was a day of heavy bombardment, six weeks after the 7 October Hamas-led assault on southern Israel, which led to 1,200 people being killed and 251 being taken hostage. The BBC has asked the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) for information on what was targeted but has not yet received a response. Since the start of the war, at least 73,377 people have been killed in Gaza, according to the Hamas-run health ministry, whose figures are considered reliable by the UN. Image caption, Forty-four children were listed among the dead In Gaza, the recovery work was carried out by the Civil Defence, which operates under the Hamas-run interior ministry. Its efforts have been supported by the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). "We provide material support - literally the gloves, shovels, protective equipment and body bags they use," said Patrick Griffiths, spokesperson for the ICRC. "We provide training, supporting them to do their work safely, in line with professional practice ensuring the deceased are treated with dignity. And we've supported them by renting - for hundreds of hours - two of the only excavators available for this work in Gaza." "It's not an answer any family wants to receive - confirmation that your loved one has been killed," Griffiths added. "But it's essential towards them receiving closure and being able to mourn their loss in their own way." Last month, the BBC filmed the start of the operation to uncover bodies in Sabra. A single bulldozer picked through the rubble and then more delicate work was done by hand. "This multi-storey building has been levelled. There were maybe more than 180 civilians inside. Most of them, around 90%, were killed," Civil Defence spokesman Mahmoud Basal said at the time. "On that day [of the strikes], the Civil Defence crews couldn't get to the site because it needed co-ordination [with Israel via a third party such as the ICRC] and there was great danger in reaching the area." Relatives of the dead were at the scene to guide the recovery crews during the recovery work. They said they had retrieved as many bodies as they could immediately after the attack and were relieved to be able to give others a proper burial. "It's a devastating and sad feeling that resonates with everyone who was here," said Nahed al-Hassayna, as he showed the BBC the rubble of his family's living room. "The kids – what did they do?" he asked, holding up the possessions of two of his young relatives. "This was a school backpack for Omar, and this was Ibrahim's shoe. Why? Why were they killed?" "I'm the sole survivor of my family," said Yousef Abu Sharia, standing nearby. "Today, I'm talking to you [as] the one who lost my mother, my father, my uncle and my cousins and all my family. I lost them under this rubble." It is believed that dozens more bodies are yet to be recovered at the site. Across the Gaza Strip, thousands more people are unaccounted for. The remains of many are thought to be under the rubble left by intense Israeli air strikes during the war. Related topics Israel-Gaza war Palestinian territories Israel More on this story 'Digital lifeline' - Gaza tech workers give glimpse of possible future Published 22 hours ago At least 13 killed in Israeli strikes on Gaza after Hamas agree disarmament deal Published 2 days ago Israeli official says troops won't pull back in Gaza without 'genuine' Hamas disarmament Published 4 days ago The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:01 Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack. 00:01:01, play video Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack 0:57 Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites. 00:00:57, play video Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport 1:01 What are the 'luteal uglies'? 00:01:01, play video What are the 'luteal uglies'? 0:59 Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 00:00:59, play video Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 0:40 US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak. 00:00:40, play video US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak 0:35 PC Harper's mother on early release for killers. 00:00:35, play video PC Harper's mother on early release for killers 0:41 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti. 00:00:41, play video 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti 0:54 Why Scotland's exam results come first. 00:00:54, play video Why Scotland's exam results come first 1:06 Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 00:01:06, play video Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 0:39 Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests. 00:00:39, play video Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests 1:09 Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos. 00:01:09, play video Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos 0:25 Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas. 00:00:25, play video Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas 0:45 Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer. 00:00:45, play video Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer 0:55 Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight. 00:00:55, play video Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight 0:27 Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend. 00:00:27, play video Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend 0:59 How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president. 00:00:59, play video How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president 1:57 Are some schools taking discipline too far? 00:01:57, play video Are some schools taking discipline too far? Top stories Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack Published 4 hours ago More than 170 migrants rescued after boat catches fire in Channel Published 2 hours ago Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece Published 2 hours ago More to explore Which area has the best grades? Key takeaways from Scotland's exam results How to avoid the worst of the Italian heat I left my wife and twins behind - why this Nigerian man fled South Africa Breast cancer checks missing most women under 50 who are at risk, says study There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger After three traumatic years at uni, I fear I won't get my dream nursing job Woman has pioneering womb surgery to fix 'miracle' baby with intestines outside its body Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC 'I said maybeeee...' Follow police investigations from the 999 call to conviction The return of the thrilling, award-winning drama about the CIA Tommy and John Fury debate what makes a home Most read 1 Athletes go 'missing' after Commonwealth Games ends 2 Princess Eugenie gives birth to baby girl in Portugal 3 Major search under way for boy, 13, missing at sea 4 Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack 5 Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece 6 Bono, Eddie Vedder and Hozier among mourners at Glen Hansard's funeral 7 Man 'driven insane' by noise admits killing fish 8 Care company fined for running illegal children's homes in legal first 9 Oil prices fall on hopes Strait of Hormuz could reopen 10 Ed Sheeran fined for failing to insure Aston Martin BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.