Guinness: 162-year-old bottle of stout found off the coast of Dover - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Divers find 162-year-old Guinness in shipwreck off the English coast Image source, Stefan Panis Image caption, The bottle of Guinness dates back to 1864 By Adam Mandeville BBC News NI Published 7 August 2026, 06:59 BST How far would you travel for a pint of Guinness? If the answer is to the bottom of the sea, you might be in luck. There's just one catch - the pint in question is 162 years old. When Belgian underwater photographer Stefan Panis discovered a bottle buried in a shipwreck off the coast of Dover in 2025, he had no idea what he had found. He just knew something about it had caught his eye. When Panis and his friend, Eddie Huzzey, surfaced, a quick rinse revealed the familiar Guinness branding. The bottle dates back to 1864. "We lifted the artefact, and then on the surface a quick rinse revealed 'Guinness'," he said. Panis, who has been diving for more than 40 years, contacted Guinness to share the discovery. So far, he has recovered just one bottle, but believes many more remain buried beneath the sand surrounding the wreck and he already has plans to recover more when conditions allow. Figure caption, Stefan Panis and his friends made the discovery off the Dover coast in 2025 "Seeing the size of the case, I think it is definitely a case of 24 bottles. "But there might be more cases." After the discovery, Panis' colleague Pawel Truszynski contacted a microbiologist specialising in beer at KU Leuven University in Belgium. Samples from the bottle have been sent for analysis, with researchers hoping to learn more about what the stout would have tasted like. Image source, Stefan Panis Image caption, Panis said he believes there are dozens more bottles in the shipwreck "There is always a chance that we can recover the complete DNA, and then we can do a small re-brew of the exact beer that was found in the 1860s," Panis said. If successful, researchers could recreate the taste of Guinness as it was brewed in 1864 using samples of the recovered stout. 'Possibility it's still drinkable' Image source, Stefan Panis Image caption, Panis has been diving for over 40 years But there may be an even more intriguing possibility. "There is a possibility that it's still drinkable. The question is if the sea water has come into the bottles through the corks. "If not, most likely the beer would still be drinkable." And although Panis admitted he is "not that big" of a Guinness fan, he didn't hesitate when asked whether he would try the 162-year-old stout if experts declared it safe. "Of course." 'I would try it even though I don't like Guinness' Image caption, Fraser Hill (left), Katie Wilkinson, and Katie White (right) said they would try 162-year-old Guinness For some people in Belfast, the novelty of drinking a pint that's spent more than 160 years at the bottom of the sea was reason enough to give it a go. Fraser Hill, Katie Wilkinson and Katie White all said curiosity would outweigh any hesitation if they were offered a taste of the recovered Guinness. "I would try it even though I don't even like Guinness," Katie White said. Image caption, Matt McCoppin and Natalia Nowacka agreed they would try the 162-year-old stout Others also needed very little convincing. Matt McCoppin said he would try the stout "in a heartbeat", while Natalia Nowacka admitted she would be nervous, but still couldn't resist the opportunity. "I wouldn't know what to expect, I'd be quite scared," Natalia said. Noë Vernet also said the chance to taste such a historic drink was too good to miss. "For the sheer experience, I would try it," he said. Image caption, Margaret Barr said she wouldn't try the Guinness Not everyone was tempted, however. Margaret Barr said she would much rather enjoy a pint of Guinness fresh from the tap than one recovered from the seabed. "Absolutely not," she said. "I'm a big Guinness drinker, I'm just not a risk taker." Image caption, Andrew Clarke said he would try the Guinness "halfway down me" Andrew Clarke, meanwhile, said safety advice would not keep him waiting. He joked the Guinness would be "halfway down me" before experts had the chance to declare whether it was safe to drink. "I don't think it would age like a fine wine, but for the sake of mankind someone needs to drink it," he said. "Maybe put a few more down there and see what happens 200 years from now." A spokesperson for Diageo said: "Discoveries like this provide a fascinating window into our past and help build a deeper understanding of our heritage. "Currently, our Guinness Archive team is liaising with the divers to gather more information and evaluate the find." Related topics Shipwrecks Northern Ireland Dover Beer Scuba diving Belfast More on this story 100 bottles of champagne found in 19th Century wreck Published 25 July 2024 Could this be wreckage from a 214-year-old maritime disaster? Published 22 February How is new guidance helping protect shipwrecks? Published 8 March The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:28 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update. 00:00:28, play video 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update 2:01 Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape. 00:02:01, play video Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape 1:02 Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter. 00:01:02, play video Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter 1:17 What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:17, play video What we know about the Thailand school shooting 0:48 Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 00:00:48, play video Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 0:52 Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 00:00:52, play video Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 0:31 The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 00:00:31, play video The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 0:43 An earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan. 00:00:43, play video An earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan 0:33 Moment raiders drive car into service station. 00:00:33, play video Moment raiders drive car into service station 1:11 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 00:01:11, play video 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 0:39 How much rain will end the drought? 00:00:39, play video How much rain will end the drought? 0:24 Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol. 00:00:24, play video Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol 1:43 Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment. 00:01:43, play video Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment 0:44 Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup. 00:00:44, play video Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup 1:00 What is 'food noise'? 00:01:00, play video What is 'food noise'? 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:00 What do people want from Argos? 00:01:00, play video What do people want from Argos? 0:58 Meet Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? Top stories Police failings revealed as sex offender left free to murder and attack women Published 40 minutes ago Serial sex offender guilty of double murder and rape Published 1 hour ago Counter-terror police reopen attempted burglary probe as part of Widdecombe inquiry Published 52 minutes ago More to explore Argos is getting a makeover - but can it attract new shoppers? Lauryn Hill and Wyclef ‘in an amazing place’ as fans hope for new Fugees album after 30 years How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man ‘We have nowhere to return to’: How Russia is seizing homes in occupied Ukraine First OpenAI, now Meta - why do AI hacks keep happening? The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC With great power comes great responsibility She's not a bad girl anymore, wink wink wink wink Can a test tell you what's living inside your gut? How much discipline is too much in school? Most read 1 Counter-terror police reopen attempted burglary probe as part of Widdecombe inquiry 2 Obesity rates have doubled in England since 1993 - what's going on? 3 Police failings revealed as sex offender left free to murder and attack women 4 US appeals court halts Trump ballroom project paving way for Supreme Court showdown 5 Spain to impose border controls against Italy as row over Ceuta migrant influx intensifies 6 Hunter Biden tells BBC his pardon was 'not good' for America or his father's legacy 7 Serial sex offender guilty of double murder and rape 8 Madonna and Blur producer William Orbit dies aged 69 9 Why there's a row about standing up while drinking in central London 10 'Like a bus seat back in the day' - new Wales kit leaves fans divided BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.