Are the 'luteal uglies' a real thing? - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Health What are the 'luteal uglies'? And how they're affecting women Image source, Getty Images By Ella Kipling Published 3 August 2026 "Is it just me or am I the ugliest person alive?" a woman in her early 30s asks the camera on TikTok, accompanied by the caption "POV: Girls in their luteal phase." The video has 2.4 million views and hundreds of comments. "This is literally me," one woman writes. "I'm angry at how accurate this is," another says. There are thousands of videos like this one on social media, lamenting the "luteal uglies" - the changes in appearance and mood that women say appear during the luteal phase of their menstrual cycle. During this phase, which occurs in the second half of a woman's cycle and ends when she gets her period, women experience a huge drop in oestrogen. So are the "luteal uglies" a real thing? According to Dr Louise Newson, a GP and women's hormones specialist, this change in hormone levels means women can experience a shift in their appearance, sleep and mood during this time. "Our hormones affect our skin, they affect our collagen, so a lot of people find their skin becomes drier, their complexion not so bright, they might have acne and spots," Newson explains. "They might get bloating and breasts can change shape." 'I feel like my brain is working in slow motion' Image source, Elena Image caption, Elena, 25, says her mood can be "all over the place" during the luteal phase of her cycle Elena Spaven, 25, can relate to the TikTok videos and says she feels "extremely bloated" during the second half of her cycle. "My skin feels dull and textured and just looks more tired in general, and my chest feels heavier and sore." That's because when your oestrogen falls in the days before your period, progesterone rises, ramping up oil production in your skin, explains Dr Helen O'Neill, an associate professor in reproductive and molecular genetics at University College London. During this hormonal shift, your body holds on to more fluids, meaning you may end up with a puffier face, general bloating and tender, swollen breasts. Image source, Dr Helen O'Neill Image caption, Dr Helen O'Neill says more education on women's cycles is vital Elena, who works in hospitality and as an actress in London, says she feels lethargic and "completely unmotivated" during her luteal phase. "I feel like my brain is working in slow motion, I tend to become clumsy and way more forgetful," she says. "I don't want to socialise as much and I feel low." Newson says that while women are starting to talk more about the impact of their cycles, many still do not know what to do about it. "These women are genuinely suffering and it's affecting their ability to work, function, socialise and just exist," she says. The response to women's concerns can also be frustrating, she adds. "Would you say to a man 'Oh your testosterone is down, just don't go to the gym, have a duvet day?' It's unacceptable that women have to put up with it." Your relationships may also change during the luteal phase, Newson says - which is something freelance journalist Henrietta experiences. "If I find myself wanting to get irritated with my wonderful, hilarious, chilled out partner there's an extremely high chance I haven't had my coffee, haven't eaten or that I am in my luteal phase," said the 30-year-old. It also affects her friendships. "With my friends, I tend to either overshare and regret it, or isolate myself from them and regret it." 'Despair and distress' Image source, Henrietta Image caption, Henrietta, 30, says she feels relieved when her period comes and the luteal phase ends Henrietta can experience a sense of "despair and distress" during her luteal phase, including feeling as though she is useless or having "intense flashbacks to embarrassing or upsetting experiences". Her symptoms, which include blurry vision, struggling to recall "basic words" in conversation and feeling unfocused, can be embarrassing to deal with at work, she says. She wishes there was more awareness of the issue. "There are still widespread misconceptions surrounding how and why hormones impact women's health and wellbeing." When her period arrives, she feels relief. Newson says that the luteal phase is not something women can just "snap out of", and that women can often be wrongly made to feel that their symptoms are normal, or that they are overly emotional. Image source, Charlotte Image caption, Charlotte, 36, says the luteal phase symptoms affect her confidence People can dismiss these symptoms as "just PMS", says 36-year-old business owner and mum-of-two Charlotte Dodds, whose symptoms include bloating, spots on her face and a lack of concentration. These can be a "big knock" to her confidence, particularly when working with clients - she runs a business community called Baking Bosses which helps people build baking businesses from home. "But when you're self-employed, like I am, your calendar can't just stop because your hormones are changing." How to cope with luteal phase symptoms More education and discussion about menstrual cycles are needed, says Elena, who only learned about the luteal phase through social media at the age of 24. O'Neill says there is "so little education that women receive about the fundamental aspects of how their bodies work". So much so that many women have turned to TikTok for help. In one video, which has 2.4 million views, a young woman asks: "Ladies, what do you do during your luteal phase to feel better?! I honestly can't cope any more." There are thousands of comments, with one follower suggesting to "wear baggy clothes and avoid the mirror", and another saying "eat chocolate". Another writes that the luteal phase makes her "avoid my husband", while someone else says they cope by watching television "with a bottle of wine". But this advice may actually be detrimental - so what can help women cope with their luteal phase symptoms? Understanding that it's a "predictable, temporary phase" is important, says O'Neill Nutrition is key during the luteal phase, she adds - and staying hydrated can help reduce puffiness Easing off salty foods, reducing alcohol intake, and keeping up movement can all help too Steering clear of processed foods and alcohol will help you avoid increased inflammation, Newson explains You should see a health professional if you are particularly struggling during the luteal phase, Newson adds, encouraging women to advocate for themselves "If people don't get what they think is acceptable in the first, second, third, appointment they should go and see someone else. These symptoms don't usually go on their own," she says. Related topics Periods Health Women's health More on this story How my period is supercharging my ADHD Published 14 July Living with PMDD is like having the Grim Reaper visit every month Published 17 May The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:34 Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents. 00:00:34, play video Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents 1:05 What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident. 00:01:05, play video What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident 0:29 How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 00:00:29, play video How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 1:27 Are older and younger generations in conflict? 00:01:27, play video Are older and younger generations in conflict? 1:18 Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 00:01:18, play video Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 0:48 Model's photos used to catfish women. 00:00:48, play video Model's photos used to catfish women 1:29 The inventor who refused to take no for an answer. 00:01:29, play video The inventor who refused to take no for an answer 1:07 How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 00:01:07, play video How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 1:01 E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths. 00:01:01, play video E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths 1:07 NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England. 00:01:07, play video NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England 0:52 Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion. 00:00:52, play video Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion 0:59 Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation. 00:00:59, play video Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation 0:35 Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend. 00:00:35, play video Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend 1:25 Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings. 00:01:25, play video Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings 0:55 Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 00:00:55, play video Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 0:48 Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances. 00:00:48, play video Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances 1:16 GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview. 00:01:16, play video GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview 1:07 What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 00:01:07, play video What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 0:58 '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 00:00:58, play video '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 0:29 Where does salmonella get its name? 00:00:29, play video Where does salmonella get its name? Top stories Live . Rescue efforts enter fifth day on Nepal-Tibet border with more than 2,400 missing after flash flood 1173 viewing 1.2k viewing At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot Published 3 hours ago Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor Published 7 hours ago More to explore Dolly Parton's dad couldn't read - it inspired her to send books to millions of children Sweetcorn ice creams and pastries: The latest 'swavoury' trend taking over your feed How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works We helped create UK emergency alert system - but question how government is using it Hypermobility - the little-known 'bendy disease' that causes pain and fatigue Strong winds and thunderstorms kick off the bank holiday weekend 'I thought diet clubs weren't for men' Embroidery on display as town celebrates conqueror Royal Watch: Get the latest royal stories and analysis with Sean Coughlan’s weekly newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Low-key noughties sitcom starring Robert Webb and Paula Wilcox Keith Richards recalls how he wrote the iconic 'Satisfaction' An unlikely gang set out to catch a killer who shattered rural peace Did Emily ruin Paris? Most read 1 Rescue to continue overnight for 'in distress' vessel carrying five in the Channel 2 Sarah Ferguson expected back in the UK 'shortly', source says 3 Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor 4 I've been to Gamescom six times - here's what excited me this year 5 'Healey eyes banks and oil tax' and 'X Factor comeback' 6 Norway's new king remembers 'my dear father' in first speech 7 How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works 8 They fell in love - then had to check they weren't brother and sister 9 Man dies after train hits van on crossing 10 At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.