Farmer jailed for 'body in barrel' murder in Barnsley - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions Sheffield & South Yorkshire Farmer jailed for lodger's 'body in barrel' murder Image source, South Yorkshire Police Image caption, Christopher Wright has been jailed for 35 years By Danny Savage , Reporting from Sheffield Crown Court and Steve Jones , Yorkshire Published 6 August 2026, 12:07 BST Updated 9 hours ago A farmer who shot his lodger and dismembered his body has been jailed for 35 years. Richard Dyson, 55, disappeared in November 2019, but his remains, kept inside a concrete-filled barrel in a trailer on a farm near Barnsley, were not discovered for nearly six years. A trial at Sheffield Crown Court heard how Christopher Wright killed Dyson when he tried to steal a gun from him before disposing of the body with the help of his childhood friend Karl Schwalbe. Last month, Wright, 73, was convicted of murder and Schwalbe, 72, was found guilty of perverting the course of justice. Wright, a former butcher, was also found guilty of conspiracy to pervert the justice, preventing a lawful burial and six firearms offences. Jailing him, Mr Justice Cotter said: "You had worked as a butcher and were skilled enough to do such a terrible thing, something few ordinary people would have the stomach for." Schwalbe was given a three-year sentence for perverting the course of justice. Bethany Dainty, Dyson's daughter, said her life had become a "living nightmare". She had issued numerous appeals for help tracing her father in the years he was missing. In a victim impact statement read to the court, she said: "Someone watched me suffering for years and said nothing. That level of cruelty is impossible for me to understand." Image source, South Yorkshire Police Image caption, Richard Dyson went missing in 2019 and his remains were discovered in 2025 The court previously heard Dyson had been living in his car outside Wright's cottage on Sheffield Road in Hoyland, often helping him with various jobs like cutting hedges, mending tractors and driving him to appointments. Jurors heard Wright was a "weapons fanatic" and "a collector", who owned a number of vintage firearms, old farm machinery and musical instruments. Dyson's ex-partner recalled how several months before his disappearance, Dyson had found a machine gun at Wright's farm and kept it because it was "worth a lot of money". Prosecutors said Wright became "greatly angered" when he found out about the theft and killed him "with a shotgun immediately to hand". The last call from Dyson's phone was made on 17 November 2019 and he was reported missing. Both Wright and Schwalbe, of Dike Hill, Low Harley, in Rotherham, were interviewed by police in the months after but denied knowing what had happened. The pair's trial heard how Wright had enlisted the help of his childhood friend Schwalbe to help him hide Dyson's body. In July 2025, a review of mobile phone data uncovered that Wright had called the owner of nearby Alderthwaite Farm in Hoyland three days after Dyson disappeared. Farmer Ian Ollerenshaw told the court Wright had asked if he could store a livestock trailer on his land while he was "tidying up" his own farm, and noted the events of that day in his diary. Ollerenshaw, who like Wright was a tenant of the Wentworth Estate, said the trailer was towed onto his land by a Fordson vintage tractor, but that he did not look inside it once it was parked. Dyson's body was later discovered in a concrete-filled barrel inside the padlocked trailer alongside Wright's ID. Image source, South Yorkshire Police Image caption, Karl Schwalbe helped his childhood friend hide Dyson's body In a statement issued following the sentencing hearing, Dyson's family said: "For six long years, we have lived through a nightmare. "Every day was marked by questions, pain and thoughts that brought constant torment." They said their "world shattered all over again" when his remains were found, and described the pain of their loss as "unbearable". "We cannot escape the thoughts of what he endured," they added. "The people responsible didn't just take his life, they destroyed an entire family. They stole years from us we'll never get back." Outside court, Det Ch Insp Andy Knowles from South Yorkshire Police, praised Dyson's loved ones and said the investigation had been "long, complex and emotionally draining". He said: "Wright and Schwalbe knew what happened to Richard and even with the evidence against them, they continued to deny accountability, making Richard's family endure a trial, listen to harrowing evidence and distressing testimonies. "The strength and dignity in confronting each moment of this process has been nothing short of extraordinary." Get in touch Your Voice Contact form Contact form Listen to highlights from South Yorkshire on BBC Sounds , catch up with the latest episode of Look North Related topics Barnsley Hoyland Nether More on this story Farmer guilty of 'body in barrel' murder of lodger Published 28 July Murder-accused 'got on fine' with lodger, court told Published 13 July Man 'buried in barrel of concrete on farm' - court Published 15 June Murder-accused 'got on fine' with lodger, court told Published 13 July Related internet links HM Courts & Tribunals Service From other local news sites Leeds man among four arrested over 'atrocious' illegal waste dumping External Yorkshire Post Doncaster father tried to save daughter before both drowned, inquest hears External Doncaster Free Press Doncaster father died trying to save daughter swept into sea, inquest hears External Yorkshire Post Man accused of historic gun murder enters plea - more than 20 years on from Sheffield shooting External Sheffield Star Patient taken to hospital after two-vehicle crash at busy South Yorkshire roundabout External Sheffield Star M62 rush hour warning as central barrier crash near Huddersfield causes severe delays External Yorkshire Evening Post Information about BBC links to other news sites The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens 1:03 Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show. 00:01:03, play video Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show 0:58 Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:58 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns. 00:00:58, play video Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:19 England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations. 00:01:19, play video England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya Top stories Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption Published 21 minutes ago Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases Published 8 hours ago Uefa says boycott may still go ahead as FA withdraws Infantino support Published 5 hours ago More to explore The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Steve the featherless parrot gets his colour back Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives Why aren't more women getting into padel? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 Arrests in Thetford as disorder continues for third night 2 Artificial Intelligence used to design brand new viruses 3 Met Police boss admits mistake over plagiarism row 4 Amanda Knox defends Fringe comedy show after claims it will 'trivialise violence' 5 South Korea space agency shares Moon images after SpaceX rocket debris crash 6 Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order 7 Former duke chased by alleged stalker, court hears 8 Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption 9 Boxer charged with killing aid worker in Athens after his wife gave police 'key' details 10 Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.