Forecasters warn of tornadoes in US in coming days Accessibility links Skip to main content Skip to main Navigation Skip to Search Next Close Previous Next This image contains sensitive content which some people may find offensive or disturbing. Click to reveal Print Options: Images Multimedia Embedded Content Comments Cancel Print Link has been copied to clipboard Home United States U.S. News All About America World Africa The Americas East Asia Europe Middle East South & Central Asia Broadcast Programs VOA Languages Latest Global Coverage Follow Us Languages Search Search Previous Next Breaking News USA Forecasters warn of tornadoes in US in coming days By VOA News March 15, 2025 2:11 AM Forecasters warn of tornadoes in US in coming days Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share This satellite image from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration taken March 15, 2025, shows the extreme weather facing the southern U.S. U.S. weather forecasters warned of the threat of tornados in multiple states this weekend following at least five twisters in the state of Missouri on Friday. Friday's storms left some 100,000 buildings without power as severe weather continued into the night. The tornado risk was expected to continue into the weekend in a slew of states including Mississippi, Louisiana and Alabama. Accuweather predicted the storm risk to peak from Saturday afternoon to Saturday night. The National Weather Service warned of heavy thunderstorms from the Midwest to the Mississippi Valley, bringing with them the chance of flash flooding, power outages, downed trees and travel disruptions. In Alabama, Governor Kay Ivey issued a state of emergency on Friday, extending into Sunday. In her proclamation, she said "this severe weather could cause significant damage to public and private property and poses a danger to the health and safety of the people of Alabama, including potential disruption of essential utility systems, personal injury and loss of life." The proclamation means the state National Guard will be on alert and could be activated. Missouri also declared a state of emergency. Forecasters expect the thunderstorms to swamp the South and move toward the East Coast on Saturday night into Sunday. Although the tornado threat is expected to decrease, the East Coast will likely face hail and potentially damaging wind gusts. The storm system is expected to move off into the Atlantic Ocean sometime Sunday night into Monday. Forecasters warn of tornadoes in US in coming days Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share Follow us Facebook X (Twitter) Youtube Instagram Follow us Print VOA News The Voice of America provides news and information in more than 40 languages to an estimated weekly audience of over 326 million people. Stories with the VOA News byline are the work of multiple VOA journalists and may contain information from wire service reports. Related Powerful US storms kill 2 and bring threats from critical fire weather to blizzard conditions 9 dead, including 8 in Kentucky, in latest winter weather blast Southern California slammed with debris flows, mudslides ​ Follow Us United States US News All About America World Africa The Americas East Asia Pacific Europe Middle East South & Central Asia Sections VOA Programs Special projects Day in Photos VOA News on Iran VOA News on China 52 Documentary Videos More From VOA VOAAfrica.com Programs VOA Learning English Editorials About this site Terms of Use & Privacy Notice About VOA Get VOA+ VOA Around the World Contact VOA Media Relations Usage Requests VOA Pronunciation Guide XS SM MD LG