India’s ruling BJP loses byelection in stronghold after Cockroach student protests | India | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Nationwide protests erupted after exam paper leaks and have encompassed growing anger at the India government and the prospects for young people in the country. Photograph: Divyakant Solanki/EPA View image in fullscreen Nationwide protests erupted after exam paper leaks and have encompassed growing anger at the India government and the prospects for young people in the country. Photograph: Divyakant Solanki/EPA India India’s ruling BJP loses byelection in stronghold after Cockroach student protests Opposition parties say nationwide protests that forced resignation of education secretary are beginning to dent BJP support Penelope MacRae in Delhi Tue 4 Aug 2026 13.59 EDT Last modified on Tue 4 Aug 2026 15.26 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google India’s ruling Bharatiya Janata party has lost a byelection in a seat it had held for three decades, after the Cockroach movement student protests that have shaken Narendra Modi’s government. Prashant Kishor, a high-profile electoral strategist turned politician, scored a breakthrough win for his fledgling Jan Suraaj (Good Governance) party in the Bankipur constituency in Patna, the capital of the eastern state of Bihar. The byelection, in what had been considered a BJP stronghold, was closely watched because it came in the aftermath of nationwide student protests over exam paper leaks that forced the resignation of the education minister , a rare retreat by a government that prides itself on not yielding to public pressure. Kishor said his victory was a wake-up call for Modi to improve education and create jobs. The BJP lost two of three byelection contests this week, with the opposition Congress retaining the Datia constituency in central Madhya Pradesh. The BJP comfortably held Manjalpur in Gujarat, Modi’s home state. Kishor’s supporters said his campaign had succeeded by focusing on issues that resonated with younger voters, particularly education, exams scandals and unemployment. View image in fullscreen Prashant Kishor won the byelection for his fledgling Jan Suraaj party. He said he win was a wake-up call for Modi. Photograph: Hindustan Times/Getty Images Deepak Sharma, a former BJP supporter, told the Hindu newspaper: “Unlike other political leaders who make lofty promises, he raised the simple slogan: vote for the future of your children.” The opposition have said the student protest movement is beginning to dent BJP support among younger voters. Nearly two-thirds of India’s population is under 35. While the official youth unemployment rate is 16%, nearly 40% of graduates aged 15-25 and 20% of those aged 25-29 are jobless, far higher proportions than among the less educated, according to the latest State of Working India report by Azim Premji University. The Cockroach Janata party began as an online joke after a senior judge described unemployed young Indians as cockroaches and parasites. It has since morphed into a nationwide movement with 26.6 million Instagram followers, more than the BJP and Congress combined. The BJP’s president, Nitin Nabin, who previously represented Bankipur, described the largely gen Z protesters as “a virus and a cockroach gang devoted to breaking the country” during the byelection campaign. India’s Cockroach Janta party protest victory signals trouble ahead for Modi Read more After he lost the election, he said the party would “undertake a thorough introspection”. Senior BJP sources quoted in the Indian media said the loss has shown that even core supporters could change their minds. A significant victory for the BJP in West Bengal last year expanded the party’s reach into one of the last major regions outside its control, but that triumph has been followed by a string of political headaches, including the student protests. The government has also become embroiled in a separate confrontation with the social media company Meta after a video featuring Modi in which he promised to crack down on exam fraud briefly disappeared from Facebook. The parliamentary committee on communications and information technology has demanded Mark Zuckerberg, Meta’s chief executive, apologise personally and explain how the video vanished. According to local media, Meta executives have already apologised and blamed automated systems designed to detect fake content. The row has highlighted broader government unease about the influence of foreign technology companies over political discourse. Nishikant Dubey, the chair of the committee, said large parties such as the BJP and Congress often received less visibility online than movements with no formal political status. “The country needs to understand what Meta, X and YouTube are doing through their algorithms,” Dubey said. Ajoy Bose, a Delhi-based political analyst, said the Bankipur defeat carried symbolic weight far beyond a single constituency. “Coming as it does after the student protests, the optics look very bad for the BJP. I would not directly connect the result to the protests, but Bihar was one of the main centres of the student agitation, so the two will inevitably be linked in public perception.” But he cautioned against reading the outcome as evidence of a nationwide shift in voter sentiment. “What’s changing is the perceived invincibility of the BJP’s election machine,” Bose said. “There was a widespread belief the party had every election sewn up.” Explore more on these topics India Narendra Modi South and central Asia news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Indian celebrities fiercely criticised for silence on Cockroach protests 25 Jul 2026 India’s education minister resigns in victory for Cockroach youth movement protests 25 Jul 2026 Indian Cockroach activist ends hunger strike after 26 days as protests spread 24 Jul 2026 ‘Cockroach’ protests: India’s Modi promises to punish officials over exam leaks 23 Jul 2026 Anger, defiance and a hunger strike: India’s Cockroach movement protests – in pictures 23 Jul 2026 Full Story What’s behind the protests in India? – Full Story podcast 22 Jul 2026 Opposition parties shut down Indian parliament in solidarity with ‘cockroach’ protests 22 Jul 2026 Rahul Gandhi detained and pulled on to bus after calling for PM Modi to resign – video 22 Jul 2026 Who are India’s Cockroach Janta party and why are they staging protests? 20 Jul 2026 Indian activist linked to Cockroach party moved to hospital after 20-day hunger strike 18 Jul 2026 Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)