Man with illegal weapons in home, car arrested at Trump golf club in California IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Politics U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Politics News Man with illegal weapons in home, car arrested at Trump golf club in California The 38-year-old man, who had been under investigation for robbery, was at the Trump National Golf Course in the Los Angeles area days before Trump’s visit, officials said. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Add NBC News to Google Armed man arrested at Trump golf course before president’s visit 02:02 Get more news on Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 4, 2026, 8:31 PM EDT / Updated Aug. 5, 2026, 7:50 AM EDT By Andrew Blankstein and Phil Helsel LOS ANGELES — A man with weapons in his home and vehicle who appeared to be “monitoring security-planning activities” at the Los Angeles-area Trump National Golf Course was arrested days before a scheduled presidential visit, the county sheriff’s department said Tuesday. Jeanine John Taele, 38, a resident of the Los Angeles-area city of Downey, was arrested Sunday at the course in Rancho Palos Verdes, the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department said. The sheriff’s department said deputies found a loaded magazine with hollow-point bullets in Taele’s pants pocket after they’d been contacted by plainclothes federal agents regarding a suspicious person at 3:28 p.m. Sunday. “The individual was observed walking throughout the golf course grounds taking photographs and videos and appearing to monitor security-planning activities,” the sheriff’s department said in a statement. In response to the incident, President Donald Trump told Fox News in brief remarks that he took “a little solace” from the fact that such incidents appear to only happen to “consequential presidents.” Adding, “I am definitely consequential.” An aerial view of the Trump National Golf Club Los Angeles in June. Justin Sullivan / Getty Images file The department said deputies arrived and made contact with Taele and learned he was under investigation for robbery in the Los Angeles-area city of El Segundo. They also found a loaded pistol in his vehicle at the club’s parking lot, officials said. Taele was arrested on suspicion of carrying a concealed firearm and possession of armor-piercing or otherwise prohibited ammunition, the sheriff’s department said. Taele’s home was searched Monday, and an “illegally modified AR platform rifle,” a .45-caliber pistol, body armor, high-capacity magazines and ammunition were found, the sheriff’s department said. “Multiple notebooks containing concerning statements” and two “radio signal devices” were also discovered, the sheriff’s department said. First Assistant U.S. Attorney Bilal A. Essayli said in a statement Tuesday night that Taele has ben charged in a federal criminal complaint with possession of an unregistered short-barreled rifle. The top federal prosecutor for the Los Angeles region said the felony charge carries a minimum sentence of 10 years in prison. Secret Service agent Armando Marquez, who is in charge at the Los Angeles field office, said in a Wednesday statement that the case “is a strong example of the important work our agents do to keep the individuals we protect and our protected sites safe, starting well before each and every visit.” “Since the moment our agents became aware of this individual, they’ve worked tirelessly with the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department and our federal partners to investigate this case,” Marquez said. Taele’s arrest came two days before Trump was scheduled to visit Los Angeles and have a fundraiser at the golf resort. The sheriff’s department did not mention any direct threat to the president. Marine One helicopter lands at the Founders Park Landing Zone near Trump National Golf Club Los Angeles in Rancho Palos Verdes, Calif., on Tuesday. Jim Watson / AFP via Getty Images Trump arrived by Marine One helicopter at the golf resort at around 5:07 p.m. local time Tuesday, according to pool reports. Taele has been charged in connection with the 2025 robbery, as well as the incident that began Sunday, according to a criminal complaint. Jail records showed Taele was in custody Tuesday. Online court records did not appear to show an attorney for him Tuesday evening, and efforts to find a phone number connected with him were not immediately successful. He is charged with second-degree robbery and also three other counts that deal with possessing a large-capacity magazine, having a concealed firearm in a vehicle and possession of a short-barreled rifle, records show. Rancho Palos Verdes is in the Los Angeles area but is a separate city on the Pacific coast, around 20 miles southwest of downtown Los Angeles. In 2024, another man, Ryan Routh, was arrested in an assassination attempt on the president at the Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach, Florida. Routh, who the Justice Department said was observed pointing an AK-47 style rifle from a “sniper’s hide” near a fence on the border of the golf course, was convicted in 2025 and sentenced to life in prison in February. Share Add NBC News to Google Andrew Blankstein Andrew Blankstein is an investigative reporter for NBC News. He covers the Western U.S., specializing in crime, courts and homeland security. Phil Helsel Phil Helsel is a reporter for NBC News. Dennis Romero and Megan Brand contributed . About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC