Perez Hilton news: Celebrity blogger taken to hospital after appearing to harm himself on livestream: Sheriff's office - ABC7 New York 24/7 Live New York City New Jersey Long Island Northern Suburbs Connecticut ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Perez Hilton taken to hospital after appearing to harm himself on livestream: Sheriff's office The livestreamed TikTok appeared to show him harming himself with a knife. By Leah Sarnoff Wednesday, August 5, 2026 Law enforcement in Miami responded to the home of Perez Hilton after receiving multiple calls claiming the media personality was "livestreaming acts of self-harm on social media." (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP) MIAMI -- Celebrity blogger Perez Hilton was transported to a Miami area hospital this week, where he was said to be receiving medical attention after appearing to harm himself on a TikTok livestream video, law enforcement officials said Wednesday. The update, which did not mention Hilton by name, comes after law enforcement in Miami responded to Hilton's home on Tuesday after receiving multiple calls claiming Hilton was "livestreaming acts of self-harm on social media," according to the Miami-Dade Sheriff's Office. "The individual has been safely recovered and transported by Miami-Dade Fire Rescue to a local hospital, where he is receiving medical attention," the sheriff's office said Wednesday. "The Miami-Dade Sheriff's Office Crisis Response Unit and Licensed Mental Health Professionals are also on scene providing support and resources to the individual's family." Perez Hilton arrives at the TAO, Beauty and Essex, Avenue and Luchini Los Angeles grand opening on Thursday, March 16, 2017. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP) Hilton's TikTok livestream on Tuesday allegedly appeared to show him harming himself with a knife, with a bloody torso and face. The Miami-Dade Sheriff's Office said in a previous statement Tuesday that deputies spoke with his family members on scene and "tactically disengaged while continuing to monitor the situation." "In many incidents involving a person experiencing a mental health crisis or actively harming themselves, deputies prioritize de-escalation by creating time, distance, and opportunities for communication," the sheriff's office said, adding this tactic can "reduce the likelihood of a suicide-by-cop encounter and minimize the risk of injury to the individual, deputies, and the public." Top Stories Father stunned by daughter's role in deadly Times Square stabbing spree Sheepshead Bay residents seek vandalism suspect wanted for smashing cars AccuWeather: Stormier at night Hilton's representatives, Golden Artists Entertainment, released a statement Tuesday night, saying they were "aware of the concerning content circulating online involving our client." "At this time, we have not been able to make direct contact with him, despite our ongoing efforts to reach him. Our primary concern is Perez's health and well being, as well as the well being of his family," the statement added. ABC News has reached out to TikTok for a comment. If you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide -- free, confidential help is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Call or text the national lifeline at 988. Report a correction or typo Copyright © 2026 ABC News Internet Ventures. Related Topics ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT MENTAL HEALTH TIKTOK SOCIAL MEDIA U.S. & WORLD SUICIDE PREVENTION Watch Live ON NOW Top Stories Father sheds light on Times Square suspect's mental health struggles Brooklyn residents seek vandalism suspect linked to smashed cars AccuWeather: Stormier at night Staten Island man survives lightning strike caught on camera Driver crashes, damages multiple cars in Brooklyn Victims, suspect identified in Times Square stabbings, shooting Injuries lead Long Island school to cancel varsity football season Officers find woman dead, man alive after search for 2 missing seniors Topics Home Weather Traffic 7 On Your Side 7 on Your Side Investigates Localish Shop Watch ABC 7 New York Apps Regions New York City New Jersey Long Island Northern Suburbs Connecticut More Content New York Lottery Neighborhood Safety Tracker US & World News Politics Health Sports Our America On The Red Carpet Podcasts abc7NY En Español Station Info Submit a News Tip Employment Meet the Eyewitness News Team ABC 7 In Your Community About ABC 7 Accessibility Contests and Rules Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Children's Privacy Policy Your US State Privacy Rights Terms of Use Interest-Based Ads Public Inspection File FCC Applications Copyright © 2026 ABC, Inc., WABC-TV New York. All Rights Reserved.