NASA, SpaceX launch crew to space station to retrieve stuck astronauts Accessibility links Skip to main content Skip to main Navigation Skip to Search Next Close Previous Next This image contains sensitive content which some people may find offensive or disturbing. Click to reveal Print Options: Images Multimedia Embedded Content Comments Cancel Print Link has been copied to clipboard Home United States U.S. News All About America World Africa The Americas East Asia Europe Middle East South & Central Asia Broadcast Programs VOA Languages Latest Global Coverage Follow Us Languages Search Search Previous Next Breaking News USA NASA, SpaceX launch crew to space station to retrieve stuck astronauts By VOA News March 15, 2025 6:04 AM NASA, SpaceX launch crew to space station to retrieve stuck astronauts Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share NASA astronaut Butch Wilmore shows research hardware for a study that explores 3D printing of on-demand medical devices on the International Space Station on Dec. 2, 2024. The replacement crew for the International Space Station was launched late Friday, paving the way for the return home of Butch Wilmore and Suni Williams, two NASA astronauts stuck on the space station for nine months. The SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket lifted off at 7:03 p.m. from NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida carrying Crew-10 members: NASA’s Anne McClain and Nichole Ayers, Japan’s Takuya Onishi and Russia’s Kirill Peskov. The crew is part of a routine six-month rotation. Crew-10 and the Dragon spacecraft are expected to reach the space station around 11:30 p.m. Saturday. Returning to Earth alongside Wilmore and Williams will be NASA astronaut Nick Hague and Russian cosmonaut Aleksandr Gorbunov. Their return is scheduled for Wednesday, to allow for an overlap of the two crews to brief the new team. Wilmore and Williams arrived aboard the International Space Station in June 2024 and expected to stay in space for about 10 days. But their return was delayed after mechanical issues with their spacecraft, which, after weeks of troubleshooting was subsequently sent back to Earth without them. Their return was continually pushed back due to other technical delays. NASA, SpaceX launch crew to space station to retrieve stuck astronauts Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share Follow us Facebook X (Twitter) Youtube Instagram Follow us Print VOA News The Voice of America provides news and information in more than 40 languages to an estimated weekly audience of over 326 million people. Stories with the VOA News byline are the work of multiple VOA journalists and may contain information from wire service reports. This item is part of USA Science & Health Related Launch pad problem delays SpaceX flight to replace NASA's stuck astronauts NASA's 2 stuck astronauts closing in on return to Earth after 9 months in space Return to Earth for 2 stuck NASA astronauts delayed until March Stuck NASA astronauts welcome SpaceX capsule to bring them home next year Boeing's beleaguered Starliner returns home without astronauts NASA decides to keep 2 stranded astronauts in space until February Here's what to know about NASA astronauts’ delayed return to Earth ​ Follow Us United States US News All About America World Africa The Americas East Asia Pacific Europe Middle East South & Central Asia Sections VOA Programs Special projects Day in Photos VOA News on Iran VOA News on China 52 Documentary Videos More From VOA VOAAfrica.com Programs VOA Learning English Editorials About this site Terms of Use & Privacy Notice About VOA Get VOA+ VOA Around the World Contact VOA Media Relations Usage Requests VOA Pronunciation Guide XS SM MD LG