Cambridge Travelodge bed bugs ordeal 'tarnishes' woman's stay - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions Cambridgeshire Woman attacked by bed bugs during Travelodge stay Image source, Emma Baugh/BBC/Hannah Stephenson Image caption, Hannah Stephenson says she woke up in her hotel room feeling itchy, with red marks starting to spread across her body By Emma Baugh , in Bassingbourn and Neve Gordon-Farleigh Published 8 August 2026, 06:58 BST Thirteen days after Hannah Stephenson stayed a night in a Travelodge hotel, she is still itching with red lumps over her body - a nightmare she would not wish on her "worst enemy". The 31-year-old from Bassingbourn had been out with friends in Cambridge and decided to book a one-night stay at the hotel on Newmarket Road on 26 July to save money instead of getting a taxi home. The next morning, she woke up to a "horrible realisation", feeling itchy with red lumps over her body and blood spots smeared on the bedding — the tell-tale signs of bed bugs, she said. A Travelodge spokesperson said: "We are deeply sorry for Ms Stephenson's experience and how distressing an incident like this can be." Stephenson said a lovely evening with friends had turned into a horrible morning. "It was just a lovely wholesome time of Cambridge sightseeing and pubs, and now it is tarnished by these bedbug bites," she said. "It wasn't until I saw the blood and the bugs that I realised what had happened." Image source, Hannah Stephenson Image caption, The bites across her body have left Stephenson feeling "self-conscious" and embarrassed She said it got worse, spreading to her face and causing swelling to her arms. "It's been difficult. I've had to take a lot of antihistamines, which have made me quite drowsy. I've been waking up in the night itching," she said. "I have felt very self-conscious. There are certain social events I haven't gone to, as I was so embarrassed at the way my arms were looking and the way my face looked." After she was left feeling "ignored" when she initially complained to the hotel, she posted a series of pictures , external of the red bites on TikTok, which she believes prompted the hotel to get in touch. "I don't think I would be at this point at the moment if I didn't take it to TikTok," she said. Image source, Emma Baugh/BBC Image caption, Pictured on Friday, almost two weeks on from the ordeal, she is hoping the bites will go down "as soon as possible" so she can get on with her life According to the British Pest Control Association , external , during the warmer months of the year bedbugs thrive due to being more active, feeding and mating. It said the tell-tale signs of bedbugs include red, irritating bites and small blood smears on bed linen; and small brown insects in or around the sleeping area. If bedbugs are found, it recommends washing everything at a high temperature before putting items in a plastic bag and deep freezing for at least three days. How to get rid of bedbugs and are they in the UK? Stephenson has lived across the world in Asia, Africa and South America and never experienced bedbug bites before. She said: "I would never expect this in Cambridge of all places. I am just hoping these bites will go as soon as possible and I will look normal and get on with my life." Image source, Emma Baugh/BBC Image caption, Travelodge says customer safety is a "priority" and it maintains "expert-led measures to prevent and manage pest issues" Stephenson has accepted £2,000 in compensation from Travelodge; however, she hopes the company will be more vigilant in the future and that people will have the courage to speak out. A spokesperson for Travelodge said: "The safety of our customers is our priority; and we maintain stringent, expert-led measures to prevent and manage pest issues. "In the rare instance that an issue is reported in one of our hotels, we immediately take affected and surrounding rooms out of service for inspection and treatment by independent pest control experts." Do you have a story suggestion for Cambridgeshire? Contact us below. Get in touch Your Voice Contact form Contact form Follow Cambridgeshire news on BBC Sounds , Facebook , external , Instagram , external and X , external . Related topics Bassingbourn Cambridge Hotels Travelodge Insects More stories on bed bugs 'We left after bedbugs crawled up our pillows' Published 22 June 'We feel like bed bugs are crawling all over us' Published 20 November 2024 Bed bugs force pensioner to sleep in his car Published 12 September 2023 Related internet links British Pest Control Association Travelodge From other local news sites Punk and rock band to release new single at Pride event in Ely External Ely Standard Campaigners demand urgent safety inspection of derelict St Ives town centre site External Hunts Post Family gather in France to remember Ely soldier who died in battle 110 years ago External Hunts Post Life-saving equipment could be installed at front of building society External Fenland Citizen Plant stall started during lockdown becomes annual Ely event External Ely Standard Latest after burst main floods Cambridgeshire road causing 'low water pressure' External Cambridgeshire Live Information about BBC links to other news sites The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:28 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update. 00:00:28, play video 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update 0:34 Up, up and away: Timelapse shows mass balloon ascent. 00:00:34, play video Up, up and away: Timelapse shows mass balloon ascent 1:17 The tech that could map every tree on earth. 00:01:17, play video The tech that could map every tree on earth 0:59 Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 00:00:59, play video Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 1:07 Riding England's longest zip wire. 00:01:07, play video Riding England's longest zip wire 1:21 How many different cubes can you make? 00:01:21, play video How many different cubes can you make? 2:01 Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape. 00:02:01, play video Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape 1:02 Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter. 00:01:02, play video Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter 1:17 What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:17, play video What we know about the Thailand school shooting 0:48 Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 00:00:48, play video Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 0:53 Are you hung up on hangers? 00:00:53, play video Are you hung up on hangers? 0:52 Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 00:00:52, play video Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 0:31 The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 00:00:31, play video The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 0:43 Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan. 00:00:43, play video Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan 0:33 Moment raiders drive car into service station. 00:00:33, play video Moment raiders drive car into service station 1:11 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 00:01:11, play video 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 0:39 How much rain will end the drought? 00:00:39, play video How much rain will end the drought? 1:43 Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment. 00:01:43, play video Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment 0:44 Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup. 00:00:44, play video Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup 1:00 What is 'food noise'? 00:01:00, play video What is 'food noise'? Top stories Simon Levy victims urged to come forward as police accused of 'litany of failures' Published 4 hours ago Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands Published 9 hours ago The phone book that led us to Assad's spy chief in hiding Published 16 hours ago More to explore I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock Pokémon hobby takes brothers to world championships 'We had to flee with just my daughter's clothes and dolls' Obesity rates have doubled in England since 1993 - what's going on? The 101-year-old who created a dolls' house museum with her childhood toys Artist's 'anger and frustration' with internet copycats The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC With great power comes great responsibility She's not a bad girl anymore, wink wink wink wink Can a test tell you what's living inside your gut? How much discipline is too much in school? Most read 1 Strictly dancers Ola and James Jordan separate after 23 years of marriage 2 I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock 3 Woman attacked by bed bugs during Travelodge stay 4 Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands 5 He's been frozen on Everest for 30 years, now 'Green Boots' may finally be coming home 6 Trump's ex-lawyer Todd Blanche narrowly confirmed as US attorney general 7 Digital cameras and wired earphones are back - and 'a bit more real' 8 Passengers 'stranded' at locked train station 9 How a former GB Olympian curbed his porn problem - and the signs and steps to recovery 10 Hunter Biden tells BBC his pardon was 'not good' for US or his father's legacy BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.