Grindr CEO: Revenue growth shows the AI spend is paying off Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu AI Effect AI at Work AI Insights AI Impact AI Events AI Age Grindr's AI spend is paying off and its pricey new tier has had some surprises, CEO says Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 4:07 PM EDT Updated Thu, Aug 6 2026 6:26 PM EDT Brandon Gomez @in/brandon-gomez/ @bgomezreports WATCH LIVE Key Points LGBTQ-focused dating platform Grindr is using AI to develop new premium subscription products and improve back-end tools. The company estimates that total engineering output increased roughly 2.5 times between July 2025 and April 2026. Grindr is testing pricing for its AI-powered Edge companion, including in New York, where it costs as much as $350 per month. In this article GRND Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Grindr CEO George Arison in New York, June 4, 2026. Emma Rose Milligan | Bloomberg | Getty Images Grindr is betting that artificial intelligence can do more than just improve the dating app experience. It believes AI can simultaneously create a new premium subscription business while also dramatically changing how quickly its engineers build software. "Our strategy has always been to use AI everywhere we can," said CEO George Arison in an exclusive interview with CNBC. The LGBTQ-focused dating platform on Thursday reported second-quarter revenue of $138 million, up 33% from a year ago. The company also raised its 2026 guidance and now expects full-year revenue of approximately $540 million, up from $535 million, and adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization of approximately $232 million, up from $227 million. Arison said the company's results are early evidence that his AI strategy is starting to pay off. Rather than focusing solely on consumer-facing features like Grindr's new premium AI companion called Edge, Arison is also deploying AI across the business to reduce the cost and time required to build new software products. Grindr estimated that total engineering output increased roughly 2.5 times between July 2025 and April 2026, the earnings presentation showed, despite maintaining roughly the same size engineering team. "Before GenAI, producing that much technical output would have required roughly 200 additional engineers and approximately $60 million in annual cost," the earnings presentation said. Read more CNBC tech news 'AI Kill Switch' bill needs to be passed this year amid ongoing rogue agent hacks, Rep. Lieu says SpaceX stock could face further pressure as first batch of shares unlock since IPO Google is expanding its AI empire — and losing the people who built it Hadrian valued at nearly $8 billion after fresh funding as money pours into defense tech The gains have allowed Grindr to release products faster without meaningfully increasing engineering head count, a trend investors are increasingly watching across the software industry as companies look for tangible financial returns from generative AI investments . While spending on large language models continues to rise, he said the return on investment has made the decision an easy one. "We were on track to spend $6 million on tokens this year," Arison said. "I have zero qualms about that because the amount of productivity increase that I'm getting from that is orders of magnitude more, like 10-times more than the money that I'm spending on tokens. So it's a total no-brainer." Arison said Grindr has not eliminated any jobs because of AI adoption, but has aggressively expanded the use of coding assistants and software development tools from Cursor, Anthropic's Claude and Devin. "You can run these businesses in a far leaner way than people think you can, but you need much better management," said Arison. The company is testing pricing for its AI-powered Edge companion in select markets, including New York, where access costs as much as $350 per month. Initially, management expected Edge to primarily attract upgrades from its highest-paying subscribers. Instead, Grindr said, the customer mix has been broader. "Our assumption was that only people who are Unlimited subscribers would move up to Edge," Arison said. "The data so far does not support that. There are people who are not Unlimited subscribers who were also moving to Edge, including people who don't subscribe at all." While Grindr did not disclose how many users have subscribed to Edge or where pricing will ultimately land, Arison said the company is "happy with the test results so far." Attendees on the dance floor at an afterparty following a Madonna Times Square pop-up concert, exclusively livestreamed to Grindr users, at a club in New York, June 4, 2026. Emma Rose Milligan | Bloomberg | Getty Images The early adoption rate could help validate one of Wall Street's biggest questions surrounding generative AI: whether consumers are willing to pay substantially more for AI-powered experiences. Morgan Stanley in July upgraded the stock to overweight from equal weight and raised its price target from $15 to $18, citing the "ultra-premium" subscription tier. The company's financial results suggest those investments are beginning to translate into business performance. Arison said subscriber retention has remained stronger than expected despite price increases across Grindr's premium membership tiers. "Churn is actually lower than we had expected it to be, which has led to more organic growth in the first half of the year," Arison said. Paying user count grew in the second quarter to 1.4 million, up 16 over last year, with average revenue per paying user reaching $25.51, a year-over-year increase of 12%. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. More In AI Age ‘SaaSpocalypse’ debate intensifies as software stocks swing wildly Jordan Novet 2 hours ago 'AI Kill Switch' bill needs to be passed this year amid ongoing rogue agent hacks, Rep. Lieu says CJ Haddad Hadrian valued at nearly $8 billion after fresh funding as money pours into defense tech Samantha Subin Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by