Sara Gilson Died Without Will Before Husband Shawn Killed Her Skip to main content Celebrity News Entertainment Star Style Lifestyle Sports Shopping Games Magazines Reality TV Shorts Celebrity News Expand submenu Trending Exclusives Love Lives Hot Pics Stars Are Just Like Us View All Entertainment Expand submenu TV Movies Music Sports Reality TV Watch With Us Country Music Us Has Thoughts View All Star Style Expand submenu Fashion Beauty Hair View All Lifestyle Expand submenu Parenting Pets Food Real Estate Wellness View All Games Expand submenu Crosswords Word Search Jigsaw Quizzes View All Royals Expand submenu Prince William Kate Middleton Prince Harry Meghan Markle King Charles View All Shopping Magazines Sports Reality TV Photos Videos Shorts Newsletters Digital Edition Subscribe Subscription Services Cancel Subscription Got a Tip for Us? Facebook Instagram Twitter TikTok YouTube Subscribe Search Search Search Sign in Celebrity News Influencer Sara Gilson Died Without a Will Before Husband Shawn Duffey Killed Her in Murder-Suicide (Exclusive) By Johnni Macke and Andrea Simpson August 3, 2026 TOP STORIES Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Sara Gilson did not have a will before her husband, Jeremiah “Shawn” Duffey , fatally shot her then killed himself in a murder-suicide , according to probate documents filed nearly two weeks after her tragic death. Gilson’s ex-husband, Lyle Landers , with whom she shared two children, claimed in newly filed court documents exclusively obtained by Us that the influencer died without a will and he is asking the court to block any beneficiaries of Duffey’s estate from inheriting anything from the social media star in the wake of her murder. She was 43. In the docs submitted on July 29, Landers, 46, noted that since she was killed on July 23, he’s made a “diligent effort” to locate a will but hasn’t been “successful. Landers noted that because Duffey, who was 47 at the time of his death, “intentionally an feloniously took [Sara’s] life” before dying by suicide, his designated beneficiaries “should be barred from inheriting from the decedent.” He cited Oklahoma law, arguing that the state previously ruled that “no person should be permitted to benefit from his own wrongdoing.” Related: Sara Gilson's Ex-Husband Covering Funeral Expenses After Her Murder The late influencer Sara Gilson’s ex-husband, Lyle Landers, has offered to pay for her funeral in the wake of her death in an alleged murder-suicide plot carried out by her estranged second husband, Jeremiah “Shawn” Duffey. Landers told TMZ on Thursday, July 30, that he promised Gilson’s parents that he would give her the funeral […] Landers pointed out that per Oklahoma statues, “no person who is convicted of murder in the first degree, murder in the second degree, manslaughter in the first degree, as defined by the laws of this state” shall be able to “inherit from the victim of the offense, or receive any interest in the estate of the victim, or take any devise or legacy, or as a designated beneficiary of an account.” He claimed his ex-wife left an estate consisting of personal property in Tulsa, Oklahoma, which he wants to ‘Preserve and protect” for their children. Sara Gilson. Courtesy of Sara Gilson/Instagram Landers is requesting that the court appoint him administrator of Gilson’s estate and guardian ad litem for their children. (A guardian ad litem is a person named by a judge to protect the best interests of a child or an adult who cannot speak for themselves in a court of law.) According to his filing, Landers argued that his and Gilson’s children, Mia, 14, and Tye, 13, are still minors and “cannot adequately participate in protecting their rights” against Duffey’s beneficiaries possibly coming for Gilson’s estate. Related: Who Is Sara Gilson? Mom Was Allegedly Killed By Husband Amid Pedophile Claim Influencer Sara Gilson was allegedly killed by her estranged husband, Shawn Duffey, mere weeks after she allegedly accused him of being a pedophile. Tulsa’s ABC affiliate reported on July 23, 2026, that Gilson and Duffey were found dead in their Oklahoma City home after a fatal shooting. A juvenile family member present at the scene […] Gilson’s ex-husband, who divorced from the content creator was finalized in 2019, is asking the court to determine the identity of her heirs at the next hearing. Shawn Duffey and Sara Gilson. Courtesy of Sara Gilson/TikTok News broke on July 25 that Gilson and Duffey were found dead in their Oklahoma City home after a fatal shooting two days prior. Investigators believe that Duffey broke into the house and opened fire on Gilson before taking his own life. Prior to her death, Gilson claimed in a TikTok video that Duffey was a pedophile after he was accused in June of sexual misconduct by a 15-year-old female basketball player he was coaching. (“Preparing for when Netflix drops a documentary about my soon to be ex husband who I just found out is a pedophile,” Gilson wrote alongside the video, noting, “I wish I was kidding.”) Sara Gilson and Shawn Duffey. Courtesy of Sara Gilson/TikTok Following the allegations, both Gilson and the alleged minor victim filed for an emergency protective order against Duffey. Us later confirmed that Gilson filed three separate protective orders against Duffey throughout their relationship. The first in August 2021, and the second in September 2021, were both dismissed that same year. The third protective order filed in June was granted ahead of her death. Gilson claimed in her filing that Duffey had a “firearm on him” and “went on the run” after being accused of child abuse. Related: Sara Gilson's Ex 'Begged' Her to Leave Husband Before Murder-Suicide Influencer Sara Gilson’s ex-husband, Lyle Landers, allegedly “begged” her to leave her estranged husband Shawn Duffey before the couple’s apparent murder-suicide. “She had been stuck in a relationship where domestic abuse seemed ‘OK,’” Landers, 46, claimed in an interview with People published on Sunday, July 26, of his ex-wife, with whom he shared two kids, […] Thank You! You have successfully subscribed. Subscribe to newsletters Enter your email Please enter a valid email. Subscribe By signing up, I agree to the Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive emails from Us Deal of the Day Fall Layering, Solved! This ‘Cozy for the Fall’ Amazon Cardigan Is a Whopping 54% Off View Deal Check our latest news in Google News Follow Us Check our latest news in Apple News Follow Us Us confirmed on July 30 that an unidentified male called 911 for help before Gilson was killed. According to a radio log call from Gilson and Duffey’s home on the day of the murder-suicide, the male caller claimed he heard Gilson plead for her life to someone presumed to be Duffey who was in the room. The man also told the operator that a child was in the home. If you or someone you know is experiencing domestic violence, please call the National Domestic Violence Hotline at 1-800-799-7233 for confidential support. Just For You 'Dancing With the Stars' Season 35 Judges and Hosts Revealed 5-Year-Old Girl Found Dead After Going Missing From South Carolina Home Sydney Sweeney Eats Cake and Goes Topless to Celebrate Her ‘Birthday Month’ Michael Weatherly Makes His ‘NCIS’ Return in Season 24 Trailer: 1st Look Travis Kelce Breaks Silence on Getting a Dog With Wife Taylor Swift Thank You! You have successfully subscribed. Exclusives you can't get anywhere else We know you want Us, because you've made it this far. Sign up for weekly celebrity news, exclusives, and original reporting delivered straight to your inbox. Enter your email Subscribe Please enter a valid email. By signing up, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Policy Youtube News News Podcasts Thank You! You have successfully subscribed. Subscribe to newsletters Enter your email Please enter a valid email. Subscribe By signing up, I agree to the Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive emails from Us More Stories Youtube News News Podcasts Thank You! You have successfully subscribed. Subscribe to newsletters Enter your email Please enter a valid email. Subscribe By signing up, I agree to the Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive emails from Us Close Button for "Got a Tip" Form Thanks for the tip! Got a tip for US? We're All Ears for Celebrity Buzz! Enter your name Please enter a name. Enter your email Please enter a valid email. Enter your phone number Please enter a phone number. The Scoop Please enter a message. Send the Tip! Us has affiliate partnerships so we may receive compensation for some links to products and services. Us About Us Us Masthead Got a Tip for Us? Email Preferences Media Kit Sitemap Connect with Us Facebook Instagram X Twitter TikTok Apple News Google News Connect with Us Facebook Instagram X Twitter WhatsApp Legal Terms of Service Privacy Policy Copyright Cookie Preferences Your Privacy Choices Ad Choices Us Magazine Digital Access Subscribe Give A Gift Special Issues Subscriber Services Cancel Subscription Media Kit Sign up for breaking celebrity and entertainment news! Thank You! You have successfully subscribed. Subscribe to newsletters Enter your email Please enter a valid email. Subscribe By signing up, I agree to the Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive emails from Us Part of the McClatchy Media Network Powered by WordPress VIP Cancel OK ✕ Your account Account Purchase Favorite News Subscriptions Subs Address Digital Library Sign Out Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Sign In Need an account? Sign up now! Email Password Forgot password? Sign In By clicking Sign In, you agree to our Terms and Conditions and that you have read our Privacy Policy . Sign In Up with your social account Continue with Google --> Continue with Facebook --> --> Continue with Amazon --> Continue with Apple We won't post to any of your accounts Sign Up Create a free account to access exclusive content, play games, solve puzzles, test your pop-culture knowledge and receive special offers. Already have an account? Login Name Email Password Confirm Password Your password must include: Min 8 characters Min 1 lowercase character Min 1 uppercase character Min 1 number Sign Up I agree to the terms of the Terms and Conditions , the Privacy Policy and receive emails from US Sign In Up with your social account Continue with Google --> Continue with Facebook --> --> Continue with Amazon --> Continue with Apple We won't post to any of your accounts Forgot your password? Enter your email to receive activation code. Reset Password * Please note that this form cannot be used to reset your Google or Facebook password. Visit Google or Facebook to do that. Reset your password An email has been sent to with a recovery code. Please enter it below: Proceed Resend code Enter new password Enter new password Confirm Password Your password must include: Min 8 characters Min 1 lowercase character Min 1 uppercase character Min 1 number Submit Or get back to the Sign In