The cost of being single – and how friends are teaming up to beat it - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Business New Tech Economy Artificial Intelligence Technology of Business Africa Business Paths to Success The cost of being single – and how friends are teaming up to beat it Image source, Leanne and Sarah/BBC Image caption, Sarah and Leanne say their decision to buy a house together as friends worked out well By Jemma Crew Business reporter Published 5 August 2026, 00:21 BST When Leanne split up with her partner in her late 20s she thought she'd have to put her dream of a buying a home in the area where she grew up on hold. She was earning a good salary but the properties she was hoping for - with a garden and parking space - were too expensive on her own. While she'd just started seeing someone new, it was very early days - far too early to discuss living together. Her friend since school, Sarah, was single and renting a room in a shared house in Brighton. She also wanted to move back home to Kent, but was worried about how she'd get on the housing ladder on her cabin crew salary. When Sarah suggested they buy together, Leanne admits she "totally baulked". But after chatting with a mortgage adviser they went ahead - and say it's helped them avoid the so-called singles tax. Not being partnered up can mean extra costs. It's tricky to quantify and varies by location - estimates suggest it could be anything from hundreds of pounds to £10,000 on average extra , external a year. The cost of rent or a mortgage, household bills and subscriptions can't be shared. And a single person pays 25% less council tax than a couple - not half. Many discounts involve pairing up - 2-for-1 cinema tickets, Two-Together railcards, couples gym memberships - plus solo travellers often pay a single person supplement. This affects a lot of people. Some 18.5m people had never been married or in a civil partnership in 2024 – 36.8% of the population aged 16 and over, official figures show. And overall 8.6m people were estimated to be living alone in the UK last year - that's nearly a third of all households. Is the single life more expensive? Published 16 March 2018 Ahead of their house purchase, Sarah and Leanne agreed a minimum amount of time they'd live together for - two years, which they then extended to four - and discussed what would happen if one person wanted to leave. Their mortgage payments were split proportionally to take into account their differing salaries, and the arrangements detailed in a declaration of trust so they would be protected when they came to sell. They were able to split the household bills - with these coming out of a joint account and self-professed "bill keeper" Sarah keeping track of what they needed to transfer each month - but also cut costs by sharing some meals and the cooking as they had similar eating habits. "We called it our happy home, not our forever home," says Leanne. "And it was a very happy home," agrees Sarah. Image source, Leanne and Sarah/BBC Image caption, Leanne and Sarah call the place they bought together their "happy home" Benefits to buying a home with friends include a bigger deposit and budget, and split costs, according to the Homeowner's Alliance. But it says people should consider potential pitfalls seriously and plan ahead by being upfront about their finances, seeking separate legal advice and drawing up a formal agreement. Sarah and Leanne sold their house for a profit four years after moving in, and they put the equity they'd built up toward their next, separate purchases. "Neither of us would have been able to do what we've done without having the property that we had together," says Sarah. "It's brought us a lot of freedom." Leanne thinks she would have been able to afford what she wanted in time, but the financial benefits from buying with Sarah made this possible much sooner. "The hidden singles tax is that everything has to take so much longer for you to be able to be in a position of affordability to do what you want to do," she adds. Their success inspired their friend Philly to set up Cucoon - an online platform matching up singles to potentially buy together. She says her aim is to "level the playing field", adding the singles tax is particularly high when it comes to housing. How to cut costs if you're single Monetise your real estate: rent out rooms, car parking spaces and garages Shared dinners: hosts take turns to cook with larger, cheaper products Borrowing circles: one person buys an expensive item, such as a lawnmower, and passes it along Errand pooling: friends share fuel costs by taking it in turns to drive to the supermarket Julia Pearson, from Hampshire, set up the Just4One website about nine years ago when she wanted to go on holiday and discovered many places would charge her extra if she went alone. Alongside practical support for solo life, the platform lists travel providers which do not include the single supplement. Being single feels like a "constant review of your costs all the time", she says. In a list of a money-saving tips for drivers, the RAC suggests adding a named driver onto your car insurance. , external It's something Julia has tried - and says it's saved her 8%. The RAC says this can bring your premium down, but warns it can also do the opposite. Julia also shares items with friends – she has borrowed tools to renovate her home and given people plant cuttings from her garden. "I think as a society, we are becoming more social in terms of our sharing and thinking. "Rather than thinking, 'I've got to go out and buy that', think about how else can you play that, what else can you do aside from having to buy something? "And it's good for the social side as well, two benefits in one." Get in touch How have you managed to cut costs in different areas of your life? Share your tips Contact form Contact form Get our flagship newsletter with all the headlines you need to start the day. Sign up here. Related topics Friendship Money Personal finance Housing Cost of Living More on this story We split money equally even when one of us earned a lot more Published 24 July Is buying with friends the answer to a tough housing market? Published 17 July 2025 I'm back at home again after uni - here's how I'm making it work Published 26 June Why Gen Z are planning for life without a state pension Published 1 July The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia 0:50 Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea. 00:00:50, play video Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea 1:01 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller. 00:01:01, play video 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:49 Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales. 00:00:49, play video Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales 0:59 The city closing down streets so children can play. 00:00:59, play video The city closing down streets so children can play 1:23 The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII. 00:01:23, play video The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII 1:30 What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK. 00:01:30, play video What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK 0:37 Crispy butter beans with whipped feta. 00:00:37, play video Crispy butter beans with whipped feta 0:57 Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites. 00:00:57, play video Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport Top stories Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate Published 1 hour ago Infantino remains Fifa president after executive meeting Published 27 minutes ago Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London Published 5 hours ago More to explore The cost of being single – and how friends are teaming up to beat it From flip flops to fisherman's sandals: How to look after your feet this summer 'My grandmother subjected my baby to female genital mutilation behind my back' 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' Kate Nash on Irish history, heritage and covering Sinéad O'Connor There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media 'This year has been the worst for my heat anxiety' Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Love shouldn't feel like fear How hydrated do you really need to be? Melvin Odoom on the MiniDiscs he can't throw away The origin story of the first Comic Con Most read 1 Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London 2 University of Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 3 El-Sayed's victory sends tremors through Democratic Party 4 See the Sun like never before with most detailed images yet 5 Iran says it has agreed Strait of Hormuz shipping route with Oman 6 Family 'devastated' by death of girl, 9, as man charged with murder 7 Student loan repayment rates an 'unsustainable burden', chancellor told 8 Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate 9 Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England 10 Apology after carer fed dog food to elderly woman by mistake BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.