U.S. intelligence agencies warn Putin could test NATO by authorizing provocative actions - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War UFO Files World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War UFO Files World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Politics U.S. intelligence agencies warn Putin could test NATO by authorizing provocative actions By Olivia Gazis Olivia Gazis Olivia Gazis covers intelligence and international security matters for CBS News. Twice Emmy-nominated, she has traveled worldwide with the secretary of state and contributes reporting on intelligence, foreign policy and other security topics across CBS News broadcast, radio, online and streaming platforms. Read Full Bio Olivia Gazis August 7, 2026 / 7:05 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google American intelligence assessments indicate Russian President Vladimir Putin could be increasingly willing to authorize provocative actions that could extend onto NATO territory, U.S. officials briefed on the matter told CBS News. Those actions could include hybrid operations, cyberattacks and other deniable measures short of a conventional military campaign, the officials said. The assessments reflect a shift in Putin's risk calculus compared with just a few months ago, U.S. officials say. The likely goal would not necessarily be to trigger a broader conflict, but to test NATO's unity and the Trump administration's willingness to respond to an attack on a NATO ally, according to the officials. The discovery earlier this week of an explosive-laden drone at an airport in Leipzig, Germany, is assessed by the U.S. to be of Russian origin, officials said. Officials point to a pattern of other actions that have heightened concerns, including Russian drone incursions into Romania , a Russian missile that crossed into Poland last month and a broader uptick in suspected sabotage, cyber operations and other hybrid tactics across Europe. NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte and other European leaders have long argued publicly that Russia is expanding its use of hybrid tactics. "We are Russia's next target, and we are already in harm's way," Rutte warned last December, adding Moscow could be ready to use military force against NATO "within five years." The U.S. assessments come as Russia continues to absorb enormous losses on the battlefield in Ukraine. CIA Director John Ratcliffe said at a defense forum last month that U.S. intelligence is consistent with public battlefield estimates that newly arrived Russian recruits survive just 20 to 30 minutes before being killed or wounded, largely because of Ukraine's use of AI-powered attack drones. U.S. officials have said Russia is losing roughly 30,000 troops a month, or between 5,000 and 7,000 a week — losses that are outpacing its recruitment rate. U.S. diplomatic efforts to end the war, meanwhile, have stalled, with no clear path to renewed negotiations. The CIA declined to comment on the assessment of U.S. intelligence agencies, and NATO has not yet responded to a request for comment. CBS News has reached out to the Russian Embassy in Washington for comment. The Wall Street Journal was first to report on the assessment. Under Article 5 of the treaty that created NATO, members of the 32-country bloc are expected to come to each other's defense, treating an attack on any member state as an attack on them all. President Trump has expressed doubts about that arrangement at times, saying last year there are " numerous definitions of Article 5 " and he isn't sure that NATO member states would come to the defense of the United States if needed. (Article 5 was invoked for the only time in history after the U.S. was targeted by al-Qaeda on Sept. 11, 2001.) At other points, Mr. Trump has said the U.S. would protect NATO members. Mr. Trump has lashed out at some NATO member states, accusing some allies of not spending enough on their own defense and criticizing them for not joining the U.S. war with Iran. His administration has also sought to shift more responsibility for defense to European states, and has weighed pulling thousands of troops from Germany , though the president called off plans to cancel a deployment of troops to Poland earlier this year. More from CBS News Cruz calls for arming Iran's protesters: "Our objective should be regime collapse" White House declassifies info on secret FBI probe into Trump's firing of Comey Trump announces $180 million to boost mining education Sherrill enters national political fray with first midterm endorsements Go deeper with The Free Press How Trump Gained the Upper Hand with Putin Putin Wants to Destroy Ukraine. Can Trump Stop Him? © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. At least 17 dead from strikes on Ukraine At least 17 killed in Ukraine after Russian strikes on capital of Kyiv and surrounding region 02:04 At least 17 killed in Ukraine after Russian strikes on capital of Kyiv and surrounding region (02:04) Cruz calls for arming Iran's protesters: "Our objective should be regime collapse" White House declassifies info on secret FBI probe into Trump's firing of Comey Trump announces $180 million to boost mining education How Trump Gained the Upper Hand with Putin Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue