Barcelona? Real Madrid? Man City's Rodri has a decision to make - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Football Scores & Fixtures Tables World Cup Follow Your Team Pre-Season Fixtures Gossip Transfers Women European Leagues & Cups Quizzes Barcelona? Real Madrid? Man City's Rodri has a decision to make Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Rodri was named player of the tournament after captaining Spain to World Cup glory in the summer By Shamoon Hafez , Manchester City reporter in Seoul, South Korea , Sami Mokbel , Senior football correspondent and Elizabeth Conway , Spanish football reporter Published 4 hours ago Manchester City midfielder Rodri may have a huge decision to make this summer on whether to join La Liga giants Real Madrid or Barcelona - should he decide to leave Etihad Stadium. The 30-year-old is into the final year of his deal at City and is yet to sign fresh terms. Real have held a long-term interest in signing the player, but sources at Barcelona said on Thursday that the club now had the player's approval to open negotiations with Manchester City . Barcelona sources said there were no guarantees any deal would be made but that it was a key development. How do Manchester City manage the Rodri dilemma? Published 25 July A big decision to make Rodri missed much of the 2024-25 campaign after sustaining a serious knee injury, and parts of last season were disrupted by a hamstring issue. However, the 2024 Ballon d'Or winner was back to his best at the World Cup in the summer, leading Spain to their second title and being named player of the tournament. Rodri said earlier this season his future would be sorted out after the tournament, but he is currently out of action after undergoing back surgery. City are currently on a pre-season tour in the Far East and face Arsenal in the Community Shield next Sunday, but Rodri is yet to link up with his team-mates. Once he does return, does he sign the deal that is on offer from City, see out the final months of his contract and become a free agent next summer or take up the prospect of a return to his homeland? City sources have previously told BBC Sport they are "counting on" the player for next season, while a significant fee would need to be offered to even consider a sale. A move to Barca would allow Rodri to join the title winners for the past two seasons and unite with national team-mates Ferran Torres, Lamine Yamal, Pau Cubarsi and Pedri. However, he could also enjoy a quick reunion with ex-City team-mate Bernardo Silva, who joined Real - now managed by the returning Jose Mourinho - on a free transfer this summer. Rodri might not receive a universally positive reception if he joins Barca. He played for Atletico Madrid in the past and having previously said "you can't turn down the best clubs in the world" with regards to Real, the reception at the Nou Camp could be interesting if he ended up there instead. Who could replace Rodri? Rodri has won four Premier League titles, the Champions League and two FA Cups since joining City in 2019 and has established himself as being not only integral to the side, but as one of the best midfielders in the world. Having already lost Silva this summer, losing Rodri would be a significant blow and would require one of Mateo Kovacic, Nico Gonzalez or Tijjani Reijnders to step up, with all three featuring in pre-season so far. Club record signing Elliot Anderson is set to be a starter, so there would be a big hole to fill alongside the England international. City remain in talks to sign 18-year-old midfielder Ayyoub Bouaddi from Lille, but it would be a big ask for the Moroccan teenager to fill such esteemed boots. Related topics Football Premier League Spanish La Liga Barcelona Real Madrid Manchester City More on this story Rejecting Arsenal & emulating Hazard - Monga makes debut in Man City win Published 1 day ago Anderson's rise to become Man City's record signing Published 24 July New boss Maresca is perfect for Man City - Gvardiol Published 4 days ago Shorts Previous Next 1:11 The incredible story of Yan Diomande. 00:01:11, play video The incredible story of Yan Diomande 1:06 'Athletes should speak up if they're struggling' 00:01:06, play video 'Athletes should speak up if they're struggling' 0:57 Curran and Ahmed still in England Test plans - North. 00:00:57, play video Curran and Ahmed still in England Test plans - North 0:32 Thousands welcome World Cup hero Vozinha in Chile. 00:00:32, play video Thousands welcome World Cup hero Vozinha in Chile 1:19 Afghan women's team can play again after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team can play again after ban 0:41 Rush emotional at exhibition honouring career. 00:00:41, play video Rush emotional at exhibition honouring career 1:20 Memes, burgers and Danny Dyer - British runners come clean. 00:01:20, play video Memes, burgers and Danny Dyer - British runners come clean 0:39 How Smalling went from A-levels to Premier League. 00:00:39, play video How Smalling went from A-levels to Premier League 1:22 Be your 'biggest cheerleader' - positive advice from Amy Hunt. 00:01:22, play video Be your 'biggest cheerleader' - positive advice from Amy Hunt 0:25 'I've been really impressed with him' - Arteta on O'Neill. 00:00:25, play video 'I've been really impressed with him' - Arteta on O'Neill 0:46 Chelsea's 16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli. 00:00:46, play video Chelsea's 16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli 1:15 How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? 00:01:15, play video How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? Top stories Live . European qualifiers: Rangers & Motherwell seeking first-leg away wins 5278 viewing 5.3k viewing Barcelona? Real Madrid? Man City's Rodri has a decision to make Published 4 hours ago Why has Mohamed Salah chosen Trabzonspor? Published 4 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC 'I said maybeeee...' Aviation is being reimagined for the changing planet A new high-stakes thriller crackling with danger Did Fenners score the first ever goal at the new Wembley Stadium? Elsewhere in Sport Players who turned World Cup heroics into big transfers A wanted man - but would Liverpool's Gakpo be a good fit at Spurs? Weekly sports quiz: Beckham at the Commonwealth Games? Newcastle appoint Jaissle - what should fans expect? Rockets march on after easy win against Phoenix. Video Rockets march on after easy win against Phoenix Lines to be first British woman in America's Cup team for 90 years How Buttler became T20 cricket's run-scoring GOAT Chelsea lose friendly as Juventus score stunning winner. Video Chelsea lose friendly as Juventus score stunning winner Why Liverpool are ready to make Barcola third £100m signing No WSL experience but who is new Man Utd boss Olid? Why £1m-a-season deal will be hard for Pollock and Hearn to find A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season Why we are still waiting for the 'Newey effect' - F1 Q&A The summer that changed Welsh football The ex-sandwich maker who cycles to Champions League games How Mumbai Indians takeover has affected MI London & Surrey Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.