Winter: Ukraine fears toughest test since Russia's full-scale invasion Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Politics & Policy 'Winter is coming': Ukraine fears its toughest test since Russia's full-scale invasion Published Mon, Aug 3 2026 1:00 AM EDT Sam Meredith @in/samuelmeredith @smeredith19 WATCH LIVE Key Points Ukrainian officials, drone executives and national security experts are bracing for another difficult winter, fearing it could be the country's toughest challenge of the war to date. "Winter is coming, obviously, and the last winter was very hard for Ukraine and for big cities in general," Iryna Terekh, CEO of Ukrainian drone maker Fire Point, told CNBC. Russian forces have ramped up the number of missile strikes on Ukrainian cities, likely seeking to exploit Kyiv's shortage of ballistic missile interceptors. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy arrives in the US ahead of talks with President Donald Trump in Washington, D.C, United States on July 28, 2026. Anadolu | Anadolu | Getty Images Ukrainian officials, drone executives and national security experts are bracing for another extremely difficult winter , fearing that a Russian assault on energy infrastructure could pose the toughest challenge of the war yet. From as early as April, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has emphasized the importance of ensuring that the country's energy and infrastructure facilities are fully operational and reliably protected for the next heating season. Just last month, in the peak of the Ukrainian summer, Zelenskyy confirmed Sergii Koretskyi as Ukraine's new prime minister and said the former CEO of state-owned gas company Naftogaz would help to protect lives "and ensure that we make it through the winter." His comments come as Ukraine's enhanced drone capabilities have sought to raise the cost of the war for Russia and test President Vladimir Putin 's resolve after four-and-a-half years of conflict. Russian forces have increased the number of missile strikes on Ukrainian cities in recent weeks, likely as part of a push to exploit Kyiv's shortage of ballistic missile interceptors. Iryna Terekh, CEO of Ukrainian drone maker Fire Point, said Kyiv needs to be realistic about the threat it faces over the coming months, particularly given the country's acute shortage of air defense systems. "Winter is coming, obviously, and the last winter was very hard for Ukraine and for big cities in general. This one would be no easier — and probably even harder," Terekh told CNBC in a video call. watch now VIDEO 5:31 05:31 U.S. sanctions could be ‘extremely impactful’ to Russia’s economy, PIIE says Europe Early Edition Ukraine remains heavily reliant on the American Patriot PAC-3 system to intercept Russian ballistic missiles, even as domestic companies such as Fire Point scramble to procure their own antimissile technology. "We are trying to squeeze in the program that usually takes 20 to 30 years to develop in a few years, and this is not something that you can do within a matter of three months before the winter," Terekh said. U.S. President Donald Trump , who has recently appeared more willing to support Ukraine, cast fresh doubt on whether Washington would agree to support one of Kyiv's most pressing demands. In a telephone interview with the Financial Times , Trump said on July 30 that he had not yet decided whether to allow Ukraine to produce Patriot surface-to-air interceptor missiles. Putin will fight as long as he can without risking the Russian state, but his ability to keep doing this is becoming limited. Kurt Volker Former U.S. Ambassador to NATO Ukraine's Zelenskyy, citing Russia's alleged use of a North Korean missile in a deadly strike on the village of Radushne, said air defense missiles, including Patriots, remain a key priority. "I hope that all of our partners – above all our American partners, as well as our friends in Europe – will feel that real human lives depend on whether they help us," Zelenskyy said in a social media post on July 30. Government reshuffle Ahead of the next winter period, Ukraine is strengthening the defense of its energy infrastructure and building up reserves to ensure sufficient supplies of heat and electricity. It is also seeking to secure additional funding from its European partners, notably from the European Union's 90 billion euro ($103.7 billion) financial support package, and trying to establish a winter aid package . Serhii Kuzan, chairman of the Kyiv-based Ukrainian Security and Cooperation Center think tank, said some of the personnel changes in Zelenskyy's latest government reshuffle appeared to be linked to the need to prepare for a harsh winter. A combine harvester and trucks are in the field during the harvest of winter wheat in Zaporizhzhia district, Zaporizhzhia region, Ukraine, on July 18, 2026. Nurphoto | Nurphoto | Getty Images "In effect, the government has been reformed and revitalised to reset institutional processes and improve coordination between different departments," Kuzan told CNBC by email. "Indeed, as President Zelenskyy argued, the main task of the revamped Cabinet is to ensure that the energy and security infrastructure is fully prepared for the cold weather," he added. Not everyone is convinced Zelenskyy's fourth government reshuffle since Russia's full-scale invasion was linked to winter preparations, although Kuzan pointed out that Ukraine's president had stressed from as early as May that personnel changes would be necessary unless planning measures were stepped up and carried out more swiftly. 'Putin is on a long-term path to defeat' There is little doubt that Putin will once again try to exploit winter in an attempt to finally break Ukraine by knocking out the country's electricity and heating capacity, according to Kurt Volker, former U.S. Ambassador to NATO. That being said, Volker, who serves as an advisory council member of DTEK, Ukraine's largest private energy company, said Kyiv is in a better position to handle Russian ballistic missile attacks than it was last winter. "Putin is on a long-term path to defeat. He cannot keep up with the battlefield losses. Ukraine is knocking out oil refining and export capacity, which is drying up the Kremlin's budget," Volker told CNBC by email. "Putin will fight as long as he can without risking the Russian state, but his ability to keep doing this is becoming limited. I think he will continue through the winter — believing this can advantage Russia — but by the Spring, I think Putin will begin to face hard limits on his war of aggression and will need to accede to a ceasefire," he added. In this pool photograph distributed by the Russian state agency Sputnik, Russia's President Vladimir Putin meets with Moscow-installed leader of the Russian-controlled parts of the Zaporizhzhia region, at the Kremlin in Moscow on July 20, 2026. Alexander Kazakov | Afp | Getty Images Analysts have cited Ukraine's recent push to target key logistics hubs, such as Amazon-style retail giant Wildberries , as a strategy designed to raise the cost of the war for Russian businesses in the hope that Putin will be forced to the negotiating table. Fire Point's CEO said it remains clear that Ukraine still depends on the support of its Western allies to withstand another anticipated winter assault on its energy infrastructure. "We see that the world likes to help the winners and not out of the feeling of pity, because the feeling of pity lasts for a very short time and then somebody has to understand if the bet is worth it," Terekh said. "No matter how cynical this may sound, but this is what I see as a Ukrainian. We definitely are not the victim any more in a psychological way but still we need support and we cannot fight by ourselves," she added. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by