Trump denies US running low on key munitions in war with Iran | Donald Trump | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness The damaged Shahid Beheshti University following a military strike carried out by the US and Israel in the Velenjak district of Tehran, Iran, in April. Photograph: Fatemeh Bahrami/Anadolu via Getty Images View image in fullscreen The damaged Shahid Beheshti University following a military strike carried out by the US and Israel in the Velenjak district of Tehran, Iran, in April. Photograph: Fatemeh Bahrami/Anadolu via Getty Images Donald Trump Trump denies US running low on key munitions in war with Iran President’s comment come after report he had demanded answers from Pete Hegseth over alleged shortages Middle East crisis live – latest updates David Smith Washington bureau chief Thu 6 Aug 2026 10.51 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 11.13 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Donald Trump has lashed out at reports that the US is running short of key munitions in its war with Iran, threatening long prison sentences for officials who leak information about the military’s weapons stocks. The US president claimed on Thursday that the US had “massive amounts” of ammunition and said more was being manufactured and shipped to the region, as his frustration over the conflict spilled into a public attack on the media. “Defense companies are building the largest number of plants and factories in our country’s history,” Trump wrote on his Truth Social platform , without providing evidence or details about the specific weapons in question. His remarks came after a report that he had demanded answers from his defense secretary, Pete Hegseth , over alleged shortages at a cabinet meeting last Friday at Camp David, the US presidential retreat in Maryland. Trump told Hegseth he felt misled because he believed the problem “had been fixed”, according to the Washington Post newspaper , citing two unnamed sources familiar with the exchange. Hegseth defended himself and sought to shift blame to his deputy, Stephen Feinberg, the Post reported. The president responded angrily on Thursday, accusing the media of spreading “treasonous statements” and warning that those responsible would be pursued. “The ‘leakers’ of these treasonous statements are being hunted down,” he wrote. “Long term jail sentences will be sought!” CNN separately reported that shortages of long-range guided missiles and air defence interceptors had begun to constrain Trump’s strategy in the conflict. The US military had “nearly exhausted 80%” of its stock of Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (Thaad) interceptors, the network said. The Washington Post also reported that concerns over dwindling supplies had contributed to Trump calling off further strikes against Iran, despite his repeated threats to hit the Islamic Republic “very hard”. The White House and Pentagon rejected the claims. Karoline Leavitt, the White House press secretary, described the account of the Camp David exchange as “FAKE NEWS!” on X. She wrote : “I was at Camp David with President Trump and Secretary Hegseth. This literally never happened.” Seeking to quash speculation about Hegseth’s future, Leavitt insisted that “the President loves the Secretary and thinks he’s doing a tremendous job”. Sean Parnell , the chief Pentagon spokesman, dismissed both the reports of a confrontation between Trump and Hegseth and claims of weapons shortages as “equally fictional”. Parnell added: “Secretary Hegseth isn’t going anywhere and he’s going to continue to work side by side with Deputy Secretary Feinberg to execute President Trump’s agenda, strengthen America’s defense industrial base, and ensure our warfighters have every capability they need to deter and defeat any adversary.” The increasingly public dispute comes as Trump seeks to project confidence over the course of the war. On Sunday he claimed he had ordered and subsequently called off “the biggest attack since World War II”, in the light of fresh negotiations over the strait of Hormuz. Iran’s foreign ministry denied that talks were taking place, despite Trump’s claim that Tehran was eager to reach a deal. The Pentagon has faced criticism for manipulating US casualty figures and failing to hold regular press briefings about the war. Hegseth, a former Fox News host who styles himself as the secretary of war, last month announced a screening programme for “testosterone deficiency” among US troops. Joe Scarborough, an MS Now host and former Republican congressman, posted on X : “When Hegseth attacks media questions on this extreme munitions shortage as ‘fake news’, he makes this unforgivable blunder worse. Congress needs to take action. Americans need the truth. Hegseth can’t give it. He needs to go.” Explore more on these topics Donald Trump US-Israel war on Iran Pete Hegseth US military US politics Trump administration news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)