Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Health Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Image source, Getty Images By Dominic Hughes Health correspondent Published 6 August 2026, 00:49 BST Many will have experienced it – that feeling at 3pm when all you want to do is go to bed and sleep like a log. Or, finding yourself wide awake at 3am, brain whirring and no prospect of sleep. Jet lag - the world's most annoying holiday souvenir – is the price we pay for flying off around the globe on travels or holidays. So how does it work, and what can you do about it? Body clock vs local clock Jet lag is what you feel when local time changes abruptly, but your body clock is playing catch up, says Dr Nina Rzechorzek, who leads research at the University of Cambridge on human brain temperature, sleep, and circadian rhythms. "After rapid travel across several time zones, your internal biological time initially stays aligned with home while you are trying to sleep, eat, and function on destination time. "That mismatch can cause disturbed sleep, daytime sleepiness, poor concentration, irritability, reduced performance, and digestive problems," she says. And jet lag is closely linked to what are called our circadian rhythms – the body's internal body clock. "Almost all the cells in our body maintain their own 24-hour clock, which are synchronised by a master clock in the brain," explains Dr Anna Edmondson, of the Laboratory of Molecular Biology at the University of Cambridge. "The master clock is set to environmental timing cues, one of the most important cues being daily cycles in sunlight and darkness. However, if the timing of the sunlight/darkness cycles suddenly change (you fly far east or west), then it takes several days for the master clock to adjust to the new time, leading to jet lag. "So effectively, it's like your body is still stuck in the timezone of where you've just flown from." The direction of travel also makes a difference, says Rzechorzek. "Travelling east is often harder, because most people find it easier to shift their clock later than earlier. That quirk is partly because the average human internal cycle is slightly longer than 24 hours, giving us a modest natural bias towards delaying rather than advancing our timing." Get sun, go for a walk, good sleep hygiene So what can we do about it? Well the bad news is there's no cure, but it is possible to mitigate it. "There are many ways to set the clock that we can control, including light, food, and exercise," says Dr Tatiana Wilson, another circadian researcher at Newnham College, Cambridge University. Here are some of her top tips: Light in the morning sets your clock earlier, light in the evening makes you stay awake later - use this to expose yourself to natural light at the correct time Exercise like walking during the day will also reinforce your new time zone. Indoor light is much dimmer than natural light, even on a cloudy day, so try to go outside at the correct time of day to set your clock Eat during the day and avoid food at night several hours before bed. Eating late at night can push back the release of the hormone melatonin, which helps to make us feel sleepy Some people swear by sleep aids like melatonin, but Edmondson says it is a prescription drug in the UK and to only use it if prescribed by a healthcare professional Wilson says even if you can buy melatonin over the counter when you reach your destination, you may not know quite what you're getting. "The dose in the supplements can vary significantly from what is stated on the packaging," she says Try to go to bed at your desired time and practise good sleep hygiene - keep light levels low before bed, make sure your room is dark and cool, and practise your usual bedtime routine Get in touch Have you been affected by issues discussed in this story? Contact form Contact form Related topics Travel Holidays Health The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:58 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns. 00:00:58, play video Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 1:19 England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations. 00:01:19, play video England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia Top stories Live . Major disruption on railways in northern England after Manchester power failure 11959 viewing 12k viewing Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases Published 2 hours ago Live . FA withdraw support for Infantino as Uefa say World Cup boycott may still go ahead 12978 viewing 13k viewing More to explore The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Rihanna is 'in the studio', says partner A$AP Rocky Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives Why aren't more women getting into padel? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order 2 Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' 3 Mark Hughes' son died of sudden adult death syndrome 4 All of England's rivers and lakes polluted with chemicals, officials say 5 Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases 6 Nadia Sawalha threatens ITV with legal action over Loose Women removal 7 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 8 Ukraine hits two oil refineries deep in Russian territory 9 All schools in England to get pupil attendance targets, government says 10 Meredith Kercher's sister criticises Amanda Knox comedy show BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.