Ukraine hits two oil refineries deep in Russian territory - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat World Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East Ukraine hits two oil refineries deep in Russian territory Image source, Telegram/Crimeanwind Image caption, Huge plumes of smoke seen rising in the skies from the site where the Slavneft-Yanos oil refinery in Russia is located By Jaroslav Lukiv Published 6 August 2026, 12:35 BST Updated 9 minutes ago Ukraine said it has hit two oil refineries in multiple strikes deep inside Russia with patrol boats and other vessels in the Black Sea also hit. President Volodymyr Zelensky said the Bashneft-Novoil and Slavneft-Yanos refineries were struck in the attacks aimed at limiting oil revenues Moscow "uses to finance" its war. Yaroslavl regional governor Mikhail Evraev said Slavneft-Yanos was on fire after what he called the "largest enemy drone attack". He said four people were injured. Meanwhile, Ukraine said at least 11 people were killed in Russian attacks, and the southern city of Kherson reported a total blackout. Russia said it targeted fuel, energy and transport facilities. In Odesa, no-one is safe from Russia's new Black Sea strikes Published 10 hours ago After deadly Kyiv strike, Ukraine warns interceptor shortage is costing lives Published 21 hours ago Both Russia and Ukraine have in recent weeks intensified attacks on major cities, energy facilities and warehouses, as the vast front line remains virtually static and all mediation efforts to end the war have brought no breakthrough. Russian President Vladimir Putin launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. Zelensky said on Thursday that the struck Bashneft-Novoil refinery in Russia's Bashkortostan republic was about 1,300km (808 miles) from the Ukrainian border, whereas Slavneft-Yanos was almost 700km (435 miles) away. The Ukrainian president also said that "two military patrol boats and shadow fleet vessels were hit" in the Black Sea, referring to tankers used by Russia to illegally export sanctioned oil. "Russia must choose peace," Zelensky said, adding that Ukrainian attacks were "strengthening chances for diplomacy". Evraev said 93 drones were shot down over Yaroslavl region overnight. "Falling debris hit the oil refinery's storage tanks. Emergency services are working to extinguish the fire," he said. BBC Verify confirmed multiple videos and images shared on social media showing huge smoke plumes rising from the refinery. In one of the verified images there appear to be at least four fires at the site. Energy-generating infrastructure in Yaroslavl has been targeted a number of times by Ukraine. The authorities in Bashkortostan have not publicly commented on the reported Ukrainian attack on the Bashneft-Novoil refinery on 5 August. Image source, DSNS Ukraine Image caption, Private residential houses were hit in Russia's overnight drone attack on Ukraine's north-eastern town of Balakliya, local officials said In Ukraine, three people were killed in the town of Balakliya, Kharkiv region, in an overnight Russian drone attack, the country's state emergencies service DSNS said. It said private residential houses were targeted, with fires reported in two buildings. Kharkiv regional head Oleh Synehubov later said that another two people were killed when drones attacked the train station in Lozova. Another eight people were injured. Later on Thursday, five people were killed in Russian strikes on the central Dnipropetrovsk region, local officials said. In the south, the entire city of Kherson lost electricity after a "critical infrastructure facility" was hit overnight, regional head Oleksandr Prokudin said. Internet monitoring group NetBlocks told BBC Verify it had observed "deep disruption" to connectivity in the Kherson region. According to telemetry data, internet connectivity fell to about 31% at its lowest overnight. The situation was ongoing and connectivity was about 69% as of 12:00 GMT. NetBlocks' head of research Isik Mater said connectivity did not fall to zero in part due to the use of "generators and backup supplies" in Kherson. In Ukraine's Black Sea port of Odesa, one person was killed when Russia hit two dry cargo ships. Meanwhile, the Russian military said its forces intercepted or shot down 605 Ukrainian drones overnight over a number of regions. In its latest operational update, the military said it struck Ukraine's fuel, energy and transport facilities, as well as drone storage sites. Additional reporting by Peter Mwai and Richard Irvine-Brown, BBC Verify Related topics War in Ukraine Ukraine Russia Europe More on this story Ukraine hits more Wildberries sites as strike kills five in Moscow region Published 2 days ago The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:58 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns. 00:00:58, play video Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 1:19 England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations. 00:01:19, play video England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia Top stories Live . Major disruption on railways in northern England after Manchester power failure 12532 viewing 13k viewing Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases Published 1 hour ago Live . FA withdraw support for Infantino as Uefa say World Cup boycott may still go ahead 13958 viewing 14k viewing More to explore The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Rihanna is 'in the studio', says partner A$AP Rocky Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives Why aren't more women getting into padel? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order 2 Mark Hughes' son died of sudden adult death syndrome 3 Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' 4 Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases 5 Nadia Sawalha threatens ITV with legal action over Loose Women removal 6 Ukraine hits two oil refineries deep in Russian territory 7 Meredith Kercher's sister criticises Amanda Knox comedy show 8 All of England's rivers and lakes polluted with chemicals, officials say 9 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 10 All schools in England to get pupil attendance targets, government says BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.