Bain Capital to buy Gong cha as MBK grapples with regulatory pressure Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Asia: Business Bain Capital to acquire bubble tea chain Gong cha as rival MBK grapples with regulatory pressure at home Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 1:14 AM EDT Jenny Lee @in/jenny-lee-102020a8 WATCH LIVE Key Points Bain Capital announced Thursday it will acquire global bubble tea chain Gong cha. The regulatory pressure in South Korea made it difficult for MBK to pursue the acquisition on its own, according to a source familiar with the matter. Gong cha operates around 2,200 stores globally with leading positions in the Asia-Pacific region. Sign on facade of Gong Cha Tea in San Francisco, California, January 22, 2026. (Photo by Smith Collection/Gado/Getty Images) Smith Collection/gado | Archive Photos | Getty Images Bain Capital won a battle to buy a global bubble tea chain as one of its top rivals remains under scrutiny from South Korean regulators. Bain on Thursday announced it has agreed to acquire Gong cha from U.S.-based private equity firm TA Associates. MBK Partners, one of the largest private equity firms in Asia, was among the bidders for the chain and had been seeking a Korean private equity partner for a joint bid, according to communications seen by CNBC. Under the proposed structure, MBK was to acquire Gong cha's Japan business, while its partner was to take over the company's South Korean operations, according to two people familiar with the matter said. But MBK's bid came as the private equity firm faced mounting regulatory scrutiny in South Korea following the collapse of its portfolio company Homeplus, once the country's second-largest supermarket chain by market share, according to a person familiar with the matter. The heightened regulatory pressure made it difficult for MBK to secure the deal on its own, given Gong cha's significant operations in South Korea, the person added. Homeplus secured 200 billion won ($141 million) in emergency funding after seeking court-led rehabilitation as it teetered on the brink of bankruptcy, following years of liquidity pressures that critics have partly attributed to MBK's leveraged buyout of the retailer. Gong cha, which offers a wide range of tea and fruit-based beverages, operates more than 2,200 stores worldwide, including in the U.S. and Central America. Bain said it will continue expanding Gong cha in Japan and South Korea, where the brand has a strong footprint, while accelerating growth in the U.S., according to a press release. MBK Partners told CNBC it doesn't comment on market inquiries as a matter of policy. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by