‘Performative reductions’: Labor MPs and business groups urge Burke against sweeping immigration changes | Australian immigration and asylum | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters The home affairs minister, Tony Burke, was due to give an address to the National Press Club about immigration but delayed it by at least a week. Photograph: Dan Himbrechts/AAP View image in fullscreen The home affairs minister, Tony Burke, was due to give an address to the National Press Club about immigration but delayed it by at least a week. Photograph: Dan Himbrechts/AAP Australian immigration and asylum ‘Performative reductions’: Labor MPs and business groups urge Burke against sweeping immigration changes MPs say they are anxious for the government to avoid cuts to family and humanitarian visa categories Get our breaking news email , free app or daily news podcast Josh Butler and Krishani Dhanji Thu 6 Aug 2026 04.37 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 05.09 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Major business groups have urged Labor to suspend its immigration changes and consult further with industry about how to get more skilled workers into the country, amid questions about looming Labor tweaks on permanent migration. With the home affairs minister, Tony Burke, delaying an anticipated immigration speech by at least one week, some Labor MPs say they are anxious to avoid major changes to the family and humanitarian visa categories, with one urging against “performative reductions” in migration in response to One Nation. But other Labor sources characterised Burke’s changes as tweaks to existing settings, with an expected focus on enforcement of existing rules and small pruning of various programs. “Tony’s doing an absolutely fantastic job of ensuring, that our immigration program which is so vital for us economically, vital for our vibrancy … the world’s most successful multicultural nation. But it must be properly calibrated,” said the energy minister, Chris Bowen. Sign up for the Breaking News Australia email Burke was to deliver a National Press Club address on Thursday about migration policy, but withdrew on Tuesday with a spokesperson telling media “some elements of the speech would not be finalised” in time. The ABC reported measures could include tougher family visa rules, capping backpacker numbers, or restrictions on asylum seekers. Burke’s office would not confirm media reports, and senior sources in the government remained tight-lipped on the changes. Some sources said they believed media and stakeholder focus on Burke’s speech had been overegged, characterising the changes as more “surgical” adjustments across multiple migration areas, and downplaying major changes to work, family or humanitarian visas. Another Labor source said they expected Burke’s speech would focus on how Labor plans to cut permanent migration to 185,000 a year – a target the government has cited in budget papers – rather than any cuts below that number. ‘Won’t happen’: One Nation Victoria leader’s comments raise questions about Hanson’s mass deportations policy Read more That figure includes about 132,000 skilled migration places and 52,000 partner and family visas. But potential cuts to either stream are already facing pushback from business groups and government members. Outside what will be detailed in Burke’s speech, his department recently announced that skilled migrants who were already in Australia would be given priority for permanent residency, which could help lower total migrant numbers, but also decrease the pipeline of available workers. The Minerals Council of Australia called on the government to “suspend skilled migration changes and consult industry” more closely on those changes. The MCA chief executive, Tania Constable, said the reforms would “make it harder for mining and other sectors”, raising fears about skills shortages and risks to project timelines, earnings and the economy. She said mining companies were already struggling to find workers. “Demand from these sectors for specialised skills is already growing faster than migration pathways can adapt, and industry is frustrated and impeded by slow updates, credential barriers and settlement constraints,” Constable said. The acting prime minister, Richard Marles, denied rumours of a disagreement with Burke in a cabinet meeting on Monday. 6:27 Barnaby Joyce suggests One Nation could welcome some refugees while barring other migrants – video “Migration obviously plays a really significant part in our economy, but it needs to happen at a sustainable rate,” he said. Pauline Hanson told News 24 that she didn’t care if employers groups thought a migrant crackdown “is going to affect their businesses”. “I don’t care. My concern is for those Australians that can’t get a roof over their head,” she said. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | When needed Sign up to Breaking News Australia Get the most important news as it breaks Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion Labor MP Jerome Laxale told the ABC that Labor would strive to meet its 185,000 permanent migration target. “If that requires tweaks to our policy to do so, we just have to do that,” he said. The Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry chief executive, Andrew McKellar, said it would be a “concern” if Labor was to trim working holidaymakers, while cutting family visas would also be a disincentive to attracting skilled workers. “The government should proceed with caution, we don’t want to shoot ourselves in the foot,” he said. “It would have a damaging impact if the government was to try to curtail those categories in a draconian way.” Master Builders Australia chief executive, Denita Wawn, added that the datacentres boom would need a new boost to construction workers, and called for tradespeople to be prioritised. “Migrant tradies ultimately contribute to far more homes than they consume, especially when they reside here over the long term,” Wawn said. Guardian Australia also spoke to several Labor MPs who said the government should tread carefully around partner visas, warning any cut to family categories would raise anxiety across communities. One MP said everyone including the government should stop being “hysterical” about migration numbers, and wanted to see firmer pushback by Labor against One Nation’s immigration rhetoric. “I am against performative reductions, I am in favour of steady migration … Getting skilled people in from overseas is imperative,” they said. “[Burke is] possibly driven by desire to be seen to be reducing migration rather than anything of substance.” Another MP said they would be concerned if the government reduced Australia’s humanitarian intake, while a third said cutting backpackers could be a way forward. One MP said there was confusion among those outside the cabinet who had not yet been advised of any changes. All said the issue was complex, and while reform across the system was needed, that the messaging was critical – especially amid the rise of Hanson and One Nation’s anti-immigration agenda raising fears in migrant communities. Explore more on these topics Australian immigration and asylum Tony Burke Australian politics news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Australia’s $50,000 parent visa takes so long to process that applicants die waiting 32m ago Labor faces fierce backlash from gambling giants as Coalition and Greens push for new controls on inducements 7h ago ‘Orange elephant in the room’: Pauline Hanson’s political rise is inspiring racism, inquiry hears 8h ago Full Story How does Barnaby Joyce’s support for refugees square with One Nation policies? – Full Story podcast 3d ago Australian politician admits to sending text saying ‘my job is boring’ during a hearing 9h ago Hanson says Australia has a ‘language problem’ due to immigration. After arriving with little English, Marziyah is now a lawyer with a mission 12 Jul 2026 … … comments Labor MP Ed Husic taken to hospital with fractures and concussion after car crash 17h ago Australia’s ‘unfair’ visa price hikes: what are they, why have they gone up, and why does it matter? 12 Jul 2026 … … comments Nearly 1,500 properties bought using first home buyers’ 5% deposit scheme converted into investments 1d ago Chris Bowen vows to override Queensland and NT to force renewables-powered AI datacentres 1d ago Most viewed Most viewed Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)