Man carrying ammunition arrested near Trump National Golf Club before president's Southern California trip - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Cyberattacks World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War Cyberattacks World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Local News Man carrying ammunition arrested near Trump National Golf Club before president's Southern California trip By Dean Fioresi , Dean Fioresi Web Producer, CBS Los Angeles Dean Fioresi is a web producer for CBS Los Angeles. He covers breaking news throughout Southern California. When he's not writing about local events, he enjoys focusing on sports and entertainment. Read Full Bio Dean Fioresi , Nicole Sganga Nicole Sganga Homeland Security and Justice Correspondent Nicole Sganga is CBS News' homeland security and justice correspondent. She is based in Washington, D.C., and reports for all shows and platforms. Read Full Bio Nicole Sganga Updated on: August 6, 2026 / 2:19 AM EDT / CBS LA Add CBS News on Google A man was arrested near the Trump National Golf Club in Los Angeles County over the weekend after authorities found ammunition and a gun inside his car, just days before the president's planned Southern California visit for a Republican National Committee event on Tuesday. In a news release shared by the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, deputies said that plainclothes federal agents reported a suspicious individual on the property at 1 Trump National Drive in Rancho Palos Verdes on Saturday afternoon. "The individual was observed walking throughout the golf course grounds taking photographs and videos and appearing to monitor security-planning activities," the release said. Legal complaint against Jeanine John Taele Page of When deputies approached the man, who has been identified as 38-year-old Downey resident Jeanine John Taele, they determined he was already under investigation by the El Segundo Police Department for an alleged robbery at an AT&T store in November 2025. "Deputies detained Taele and located his vehicle in a parking lot on the golf course," the release said. "During the detention, deputies recovered a 16-round magazine containing hollow point ammunition from Taele's pants pockets." While searching his vehicle, deputies said they also recovered a loaded pistol with a round chambered and an additional loaded magazine that also had hollow point ammo. Federal authorities also noted that a pair of binoculars and a badge that read "security protection agent" were also found. Taele, a former U.S. Marine who served in both Iraq and Afghanistan, was arrested and booked on charges of carrying a concealed firearm and possession of armor-piercing/prohibited ammunition, deputies said. "Recognizing the potential security implications surrounding the incident, detectives ... obtained and executed a search warrant yesterday afternoon for Taele's residence," the release said. Investigators said an illegally modified AR platform rifle, a 1911 .45 caliber pistol, an AR platform upper receiver, body armor, high-capacity magazines, bulk pistol and rifle ammunition, two radio signal devices and multiple notebooks containing "concerning statements" were recovered from the home during Monday's search warrant. The statements referenced the White House, law enforcement sources told CBS News. "With respect to this defendant, we do not comment on the specifics of protective intelligence matters," the Secret Service said in a statement. "However, the U.S. Secret Service thoroughly investigates any information or activity that may reasonably be perceived as a protective intelligence concern or indicate a potential threat or directed interest toward any individual under Secret Service protection." Taele received multiple commendations during his eight years in the Marines, including for good conduct. After leaving the service, he was a licensed armed security guard, according to a public records search. Jeanine John Taele, the Downey man who was arrested near the Trump National Golf Club over the weekend after authorities found a firearm and ammunition in his vehicle. U.S. Department of Justice Deputies said the investigation is being conducted with the FBI's Joint Terrorism Task Force and the U.S. Secret Service. "Additional charges could be added as the investigation continues. Taele remains in custody," the release said. "The investigation is ongoing." Law enforcement sources tell CBS News that Taele had initially approached employees at the golf course and falsely identified himself as a U.S. State Department employee who needed to see Secretary of State Marco Rubio. Secret Service personnel, who were already on the property to conduct advanced security preparations, were then alerted to Taele's presence by staff. Deputies said the case was presented to the LA County District Attorney's Office for filing consideration on Tuesday morning. He was scheduled to appear in court on Wednesday morning, but his hearing was postponed. No rescheduled date was announced. Sources tell CBS News that Taele has no known prior history with the Secret Service and that he was not on their radar. Investigators said they would be reviewing the material and items recovered from Taele's home, contacting friends and family members and reconstructing his activities before the arrest to determine his intentions. "With respect to this defendant, we do not comment on the specifics of protective intelligence matters. However, the U.S. Secret Service thoroughly investigates any information or activity that may reasonably be perceived as a protective intelligence concern or indicate a potential threat or directed interest toward any individual under Secret Service protection," a statement provided to CBS News from USSS said. The firearm and badge that were allegedly recovered from the suspect's possession by federal authorities. U.S. Department of Justice U.S. Attorney Bill Essayli said on X that his office and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives were also investigating the incident, and that they would be providing information as soon as possible. He later said that Taele was also federally charged for the incident, and that he now faces up to 10 years in federal prison after he was charged with possession of an unregistered short-barreled rifle. Taele still faces charges in a Los Angeles Superior Court for the incident, Essayli noted. "While we are still investigating the motives of this individual, we are thankful he was apprehended before the President's visit," a statement from Essayli said when federal charges were announced. "Federal and local law enforcement stepped in early and prevented what could have been a dangerous situation from occurring. This investigation remains ongoing." Authorities said that Taele visited the golf course twice before the president's visit, once on Friday and again on Sunday when he was arrested. President Trump was briefly in Southern California on Tuesday for a Republican National Committee fundraising dinner hosted at his Rancho Palos Verdes golf course. He departed a little before 9 p.m. as he heads to Las Vegas, Nevada. Victim of alleged 2025 robbery speaks The alleged victim of Taele's November 2025 robbery spoke with CBS LA the day after his arrest was announced. "The way he was talking, he was reporting something to someone. Like, he was recording or doing some sort of voice talk to someone," said Pavish Patel, the AT&T store employee working at the time of the alleged robbery. "I don't know what that was." Patel said that Taele accused him of recording with his Meta glasses while he was inside the store trying to transfer his phone number. "I said, 'I'm not recording you,' and then I went back to mind my own business. Then he also starts saying, 'If you're recording me, it won't be good for you.'" He also alleged that Taele then followed a female customer to the door and started acting strangely, by reciting everything that was happening inside the store and documenting how many people were inside, where the exits were and how many security cameras he could see. Once Taele left, Patel says he came back and demanded that all of his personal information be deleted. After again leaving for a short time, Patel then said that Taele returned to the store and took his Meta glasses before leaving in his pickup truck. Taele pleaded not guilty to charges in the robbery case. More from CBS News FAA probing Marine One safety incident around National Airport Pirro brought box of evidence to show Trump what caused Reflecting Pool damage Trump denies U.S. running low on some munitions, says many more on the way Democratic Rep. Gluesenkamp Perez and Trump-backed Republican advance in Washington primary Go deeper with The Free Press How Trump Officials’ Rhetoric Backfired in Minnesota The Real Problem with Trump’s National Guard Deployments © 2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. Man arrested near Trump golf club Man faces weapons charges after Trump golf club arrest, prosecutors say 02:44 Man faces weapons charges after Trump golf club arrest, prosecutors say (02:44) FAA probing Marine One safety incident around National Airport Pirro brought box of evidence to show Trump what caused Reflecting Pool damage Trump denies U.S. running low on some munitions, says many more on the way How Trump Officials’ Rhetoric Backfired in Minnesota Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue