Feds declare first Colorado River shortage, order water cuts for 2022 IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Politics U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Politics News Feds declare first Colorado River shortage, order water cuts for 2022 Scientists say a combination of natural weather patterns and human-driven climate change is fueling the historic drought and dwindling water levels. Add to Google Country's largest reservoir expected to be hit with strict water limits in widespread drought 03:01 Get more news on Share Add to Google Aug. 16, 2021, 8:21 PM EDT By Josh Lederman and Kailani Koenig BOULDER CITY, Nev. — The federal government declared an unprecedented water shortage for the Colorado River and Lake Mead on Monday, triggering mandatory water cuts and opening a new chapter in the worsening struggle with drought in the West. Water supplies from the Colorado River for Arizona, Nevada and parts of Mexico will be reduced starting in January after the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, an agency of the Interior Department, issued a formal shortage declaration for the river for the first time. Although the first round of cutbacks will affect mainly farmers, sparing cities and homes in the short term, further drops in Lake Mead's water levels would trigger much deeper water reductions that could ultimately affect cities like Phoenix, Las Vegas and Tucson, Arizona, as well as parts of California. "Like much of the West and across our connected basins, the Colorado River is facing unprecedented and accelerating challenges," Assistant Interior Secretary Tanya Trujillo said. Scientists say a combination of natural weather patterns and human-driven climate change is fueling the historic drought and dwindling water levels in Lake Mead and throughout the Colorado River system. Temperatures at Lake Mead hit 106 degrees Monday as a few boaters and swimmers cooled off in the lake, the country's largest reservoir. Towering above them was a tall shoreline streaked with wide, white stripes — rings left behind from just a couple of decades ago, when the water levels were more than 100 feet higher. John Entsminger, who manages the Southern Nevada Water Authority, said his region will be able to easily absorb the initial cuts because of steps that were undertaken to reduce water demand, including cracking down on water-intensive landscaping. He described the situation as "extremely serious but not apocalyptic." "We have a plan for that worst-case scenario right now. We've planned for the very bad," Entsminger said. "We have not planned for the absolute worst." The water shortage declaration had been widely anticipated since May, when Lake Mead fell below 1,075 feet, the trigger point for "Level 1" water cuts in an agreement among states that rely on water from the Colorado River. The Bureau of Reclamation predicted Monday that in January, when the cuts take effect, water level will be at 1,066 feet. Lake Mead, which sits just above Hoover Dam, feeds the lower Colorado River basin, part of a longer Colorado River system that provides water for 40 million people and electricity for millions through hydroelectric dams that control the river's flow. Under the Level 1 cuts, Arizona will face the biggest reduction: 512,000 acre-feet, or about one-fifth of the state's allotment from the Colorado River and about 8 percent of Arizona's overall water supply. Farmers who rely on water from the Central Arizona Project canal will be most directly affected, local officials said. At a farmer's market on the outskirts of Las Vegas, farmer Lea Bales ducked under a tent for shade from the powerful heat as she hawked squash, melons and carrots from her farm in Pahrump, Nevada — the last of the season's harvest before the fall crops go in. She said she worried that future water cuts would make her way of life unsustainable. "I probably would not have a farm," Bales said. "Either that or I would just go so small-scale, just, like, for personal use. Because it takes a lot of water to grow a lot of vegetables." Share Add to Google Josh Lederman Josh Lederman is an NBC News correspondent. Kailani Koenig Kailani Koenig covers politics and national affairs as a producer for NBC News. About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC