Advocates worry as government limits drug test strip funding : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Advocates worry as government limits drug test strip funding Drug addiction groups are reeling after Trump officials said federal grants cannot be used to hand out test strips to drug users. The strips help users check street drugs for dangerous adulterants. Special Series Health Reporting in the States A collaboration between NPR, KFF Health News and member stations. Federal funds can't be used to give test strips to drug users, raising overdose fears August 8, 2026 6:00 AM ET From By Scott Maucione Federal funds can’t be spent on giving drug users test strips, raising overdose fears Listen · 2:54 2-Minute Listen Playlist Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5874719/nx-s1-9866375" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Transcript A drug user uses a test strip on Aug. 22, 2018, in New York, to see if fentanyl has been added to heroin, which could increase the risk of overdose. Bebeto Matthews/AP Photo hide caption toggle caption Bebeto Matthews/AP Photo Last year, Baltimore had three mass overdose incidents in the span of three months in its Penn North neighborhood. In one incident, more than two dozen people were hospitalized after many were found unresponsive , lying in the streets or on sidewalks. No one died, but some came close. This story was produced in partnership with KFF Health News . Follow-up testing found that the street drugs contained high levels of N-methylclonazepam, a benzodiazepine that operates similarly to Xanax or Valium. Like opioids, benzodiazepines suppress breathing. When they're combined, the risk of overdose goes up. And benzodiazepines don't respond to opioid overdose reversal drugs. Afterward, the Baltimore Harm Reduction Coalition created test strips specifically for benzodiazepines. The group distributed them — along with test strips that identify other harmful adulterants, such as fentanyl, xylazine , and medetomidine — at clinics and neighborhood events. Sponsor Message The strips, available at no cost, can also be found in bars and spread out on street corners. People testing drugs mix a small amount with water and then dip a test strip into the liquid. The strip will change color if it identifies an adulterant. Health Historic decline in U.S. overdose deaths threatened by changing street drug supply "Nobody really knows what they're getting whenever they're getting stuff off of the street," said Candy Kerr, a spokesperson for the coalition. "Having the test strips available for the general public gives them the option to move slower if they're going to use whatever they're going to use." But a new federal policy could make it harder for organizations such as Kerr's to give out the test strips, and they're worried that overdoses could increase. In late April, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration banned the use of federal grants for distributing strips to the public and for some other harm reduction practices that have been credited with saving lives. Test strips have been used for nearly 10 years to identify adulterants. A box with free test strips for different types of adulterants sits outside the Chesapeake Detention Center in Baltimore. Many health advocacy groups try to give the strips to people when they are released from jail or prison, to avoid overdoses. Scott Muacione /WYPR hide caption toggle caption Scott Muacione /WYPR A letter sent to local health departments and nonprofits that provide addiction services explained that the Trump administration believes those harm reduction practices "facilitate illicit drug use and are incompatible with Federal laws." Sponsor Message According to the letter, grants from the Department of Health and Human Services also cannot be used for programs that support the use of clean needles or drug paraphernalia such as pipes, or to fund a type of specialized hotline that people can call while taking drugs , so someone is aware and can call for help if they overdose. The Trump administration wants to focus more on other techniques, such as giving out naloxone, an overdose reversal drug available as a nasal spray, according to Emily Hilliard, an HHS spokesperson. "It is critical that federal funding provided by the American taxpayer goes to effective, common-sense solutions that have been proven to save lives and keep people out of an endless cycle of addiction and moves them into a life of recovery," she said. Baltimore Mayor Brandon Scott at a press conference after a mass overdose incident in Baltimore's Penn North neighborhood in 2025. Scott Maucione/WYPR hide caption toggle caption Scott Maucione/WYPR The new policy does not prohibit federal funds from being used to purchase test strips for use by law enforcement officers, public health officials, EMTs, or other medical professionals. That creates an important exception for government agencies that test drugs and send out regular reports on what adulterants are saturating the drug supply in certain locations. Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after Still, Yngvild Olsen , who oversaw SAMHSA's Center for Substance Abuse Treatment in the Biden and Trump administrations, says there is a substantial body of evidence that shows giving test strips to people who use drugs can change behavior. "There's some people deciding not to use the substances, some people deciding to reduce, to use less, or take other types of precautions, including naloxone, and making sure that there are people around that can actually then help in the case of an overdose," Olsen said. Naloxone, a nasal spray that can help reverse an opioid overdose, is spread out on a sidewalk for people to take, after a mass overdose incident in Baltimore's Penn North neighborhood in 2025. Scott Maucione/ WYPR hide caption toggle caption Scott Maucione/ WYPR Kerr said the best approach would be to continue to promote the use of test strips while also continuing to give out lifesaving medications like naloxone. She believes that working on all fronts has helped lead to Baltimore's decline in overdose deaths, which have dropped more than 40% since 2023. Sponsor Message Under the new policy, nonprofits will still be able to hand out test strips, but they will have to find other funding for that work, which Kerr finds worrisome. "We've been making these strides forward because we've had these things, because we've been funded," she said. "We're going to have to pull money from other places." To pay for the test strips, Kerr said, the Baltimore Harm Reduction Coalition will have to cut back on services such as giving out hygiene and wound care kits. But she said that option is better than risking another mass overdose in Baltimore — or allowing even just one preventable fatality. This story comes from NPR's health reporting partnership with WYPR and KFF Health News . fentanyl test strips benzodiazepines harm reduction Narcan overdose reversal Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR A tale of two very different horny movies The Picture Show The Women's Professional Baseball League makes its historic debut Space Solar eclipse to occur next week. Here is what to know Immigration Private prisons announce $1.4 billion in revenue as immigration detentions climb News North America poised for light display of aurora borealis Elections Data centers are a political issue crossing party lines, driving voters to candidates More Stories From NPR Health Reporting in the States Nurses chase Cyclospora using grocery receipts, food apps and detailed interviews Health Reporting in the States Pediatricians and health officials are sidestepping Trump's CDC on vaccine advice Health Reporting in the States Baltimore will turn 911 into more than just an emergency number Health Reporting in the States Despite state bans, abortions have almost doubled. The reason? Pills via telehealth Health Reporting in the States More Americans survive cancer. But the psychological impacts can persist for years Health Reporting in the States Michigan found a way to reduce school vaccine waivers. Until it backfired Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Space Solar eclipse to occur next week. Here is what to know Family Amid cost of living stress, many parents are supporting children well into adulthood World Yemen's Houthis claim attack on Aramco oil facility in Saudi Arabia, and other Middle East news Pop Culture Happy Hour A tale of two very different horny movies World Switzerland is a neutral nation but has more nuclear bunkers than any country in the world Elections Data centers are a political issue crossing party lines, driving voters to candidates NPR Editors' Picks Ukraine invasion — explained Ukraine mourns 'collector of souls' Oleksiy Yukov, killed recovering war dead The Americas K-pop's global wave inspires Chile's next pop stars The Picture Show The Women's Professional Baseball League makes its historic debut Immigration Private prisons announce $1.4 billion in revenue as immigration detentions climb The Ripple Effect How Jim James and Jeff Tweedy learned to love the Grateful Dead Politics Senate votes to confirm Todd Blanche as attorney general Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices