Mexican influencer César Gastélum shot to death during livestream IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Politics U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Culture & Trends Mexican influencer César Gastélum shot to death during livestream Gastélum, who had nearly 600,000 followers on TikTok and was known for comedy videos, was streaming live outside a fast-food restaurant when a man on a motorcycle shot him. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Add to Google Mexican influencer fatally shot during livestream 00:50 Get more news on Share Add to Google Aug. 5, 2026, 10:18 AM EDT / Source : Reuters By Reuters MEXICO CITY -—Mexican social media influencer César Gastélum was shot and killed on Tuesday while livestreaming with friends outside a fast-food restaurant in the northwestern city of Culiacán, local authorities said. Gastélum, who had nearly 600,000 followers on TikTok and was known for comedy videos, was streaming live outside a fast-food restaurant when two people on a motorcycle, both wearing helmets, approached him and his friends. In a recording of the livestream, seen by Reuters, the driver of the motorcycle appeared to fire a gun directly at Gastélum. A security official in Sinaloa state confirmed Gastélum’s death and said a significant security operation was underway. Cesar Gastélum. cesargastelum_57 via Instagram The killing comes amid persistent violence in Culiacán, the capital of Sinaloa, which has been at the center of a conflict between rival organized crime factions competing for control. The shooting also recalled the May 2025 killing of Mexican beauty influencer Valeria Márquez , who was shot to death during a TikTok livestream at the salon where she worked in Zapopan, in the western state of Jalisco. Márquez, 23, was killed after a man entered the salon and opened fire, according to prosecutors. Her death was investigated under femicide protocols. In July, Mexican authorities announced the arrest in Jalisco of Ramón Ángel Álvarez Ayala, known as “El R-1,” whom Security Minister Omar García Harfuch identified as the leader of a criminal cell linked to the Jalisco New Generation Cartel. Authorities have linked Álvarez Ayala to the killing of Márquez and accused him of ordering and financing the November assassination of Uruapan Mayor Carlos Manzo . Share Add to Google About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC