Perez Hilton’s family says his children ‘fled’ their home before his reported self-harm livestream IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Politics U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline U.S. news Perez Hilton’s family says his children ‘fled’ their home before his reported self-harm livestream Hilton’s family said they “fled to protect from witnessing any further trauma” after “it became clear” that he was “harming himself.” Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Add NBC News to Google Blogger Perez Hilton receiving medical care after appearing to self-harm online 02:44 Get more news on Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 6, 2026, 3:09 PM EDT By Matt Lavietes Perez Hilton’s family said his three children, niece and sister were inside the home “minutes before” he publicly livestreamed what appeared to be self-harm amid “a severe mental health crisis.” In a statement issued Thursday on Hilton’s blog , his family said they “fled to protect from witnessing any further trauma” after “it became clear” that Hilton was “harming himself.” Hilton, 48, whose real name is Mario Lavandeira, started a livestream on his TikTok account Tuesday before the platform pulled it and his account down. In the video, he appeared to be covered in blood, with visible cuts and holding what appeared to be a knife. The celebrity blogger is a single parent to his children, who are all under the age of 14 and born via surrogacy. Hilton’s family implored the public “to leave the area surrounding the family’s home and not return.” “Our highest priority right now is helping the children begin to heal from what they experienced,” the statement reads. “An important part of that process is allowing them to safely return home and begin rebuilding a sense of security and normalcy.” A spokesperson for the Miami-Dade Sheriff’s Office told NBC News that deputies responded to reports Tuesday night of someone “who was livestreaming acts of self-harm on social media.” The office did not name Hilton, but it said the person was “safely recovered” and taken by Miami-Dade Fire Rescue to a hospital, where he was receiving medical attention. Hilton’s family confirmed he was receiving medical care Wednesday, saying he “is able to communicate, which has given our family hope.” The 48-year-old was hospitalized at least two times in the months preceding this week’s incident for an ulcer, sepsis and deep vein thrombosis. In recent months, he has also told his followers that he’s found God. Hilton rose to fame in the early 2000s blogging about celebrities’ personal lives and other entertainment news. His work has often been criticized for belittling women and invading the privacy of others. On Thursday, his family expressed gratitude “for the overwhelming outpouring of love, support, and prayers we have received during this incredibly difficult time.” “The events of the past several days have been nearly unbearable for our family,” the statement reads. If you or someone you know is in crisis, call or text 988 or go to 988lifeline.org to reach the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline or visit SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources. Share Add NBC News to Google Matt Lavietes I’m a reporter on NBC News’ breaking news team, covering crime, extreme weather, pop culture and more. I recently covered Hurricane Milton, which devastated the Tampa, Florida, metropolitan area, and the student-led protests at Columbia University. About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC