Top Ugandan footballer killed by robbers armed with paving stones | Soccer | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development David Owori was described as ‘an inspiration to a generation’ by the Federation of Uganda Football Associations. Photograph: SC Villa View image in fullscreen David Owori was described as ‘an inspiration to a generation’ by the Federation of Uganda Football Associations. Photograph: SC Villa Soccer Top Ugandan footballer killed by robbers armed with paving stones David Owori, who played for the national team, died in hospital after he tried to stop robbers taking his phone Carlos Mureithi Thu 6 Aug 2026 10.30 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 12.51 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google The Ugandan football community is in mourning after the death of a player who was fatally injured during a robbery in the capital, Kampala, on Tuesday night. David Owori, who captained Sports Club Villa, a Uganda Premier League club, and represented the national team, was attacked after resisting an attempt to steal his mobile phone and other belongings near his home in Makindye division. Racheal Kawala, a spokesperson for the Kampala Metropolitan police, said he was found unconscious by ​passersby, who took him to a nearby hospital. He was ​transferred to another hospital, where he was pronounced dead on Wednesday. Witnesses said attackers hit the footballer with paving stones before robbing him and fleeing, leaving him unconscious, the BBC reported . Owori, 27, was a right-back and midfielder for SC Villa. He helped the team win a record 17th Uganda Premier League title in 2024. He started his senior career in 2016 at the Uganda Premier League side Vipers Sports Club and had stints in Europe with Vélez CF in Spain and Utsiktens BK in Sweden. He played for the national team in the qualifiers for the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations. SC Villa said : “It is with profound sorrow that we announce the untimely passing of our captain, Owori, who had been receiving treatment at Case Clinic following an attack by suspected thugs. Our deepest condolences and prayers are with his family.” The Federation ​of Uganda Football Associations said : “David was not just a footballer. He was ​both a leader and an inspiration to a generation. As ​Captain of SC Villa, he led with courage, humility and passion. In the Uganda Cranes jersey, he carried the hopes of a nation.” It added: “We have lost a son, a leader and a star. His light on and off the pitch will never be forgotten.” The Ugandan parliament observed a minute of silence in Owori’s honour on Wednesday. In June Sydney Gongodyo, a Ugandan rugby international, ​died after a mob attacked him in Kampala, mistaking him for a thief, police said. Uganda’s National Council of Sports said: “Sadly, ​Ugandan sport has been hit with many such ​tragedies lately, and we hope for justice and a lasting solution.” Explore more on these topics Football Uganda Africa news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)