Ousted Bangladeshi leader vows to return from exile despite facing a death sentence : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Ousted Bangladeshi leader vows to return from exile despite facing a death sentence Hasina's speech marked the second anniversary of her ouster. She fled Bangladesh by helicopter following nearly two months of protests in 2024 that left nearly 1,400 people dead, according to the United Nations. Asia Ousted Bangladeshi leader vows to return from exile despite facing a death sentence August 5, 2026 4:43 PM ET By Shamim Chowdhury Then-Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina speaks during a press conference in Dhaka, Bangladesh, on Jan. 6, 2014. Rajesh Kumar Singh/AP hide caption toggle caption Rajesh Kumar Singh/AP Ousted Bangladeshi leader Sheikh Hasina said she plans to return to her country despite being sentenced to death by a court there during her two-year exile. In her first public address since fleeing to India after a violent crackdown on a youth-led uprising in 2024, she said: "Whatever fate awaits me, I will return to my people." Hasina added: "I may be detained, I may be sent to prison, they may try to enforce verdicts issued in fabricated cases, but fear cannot decide my duty to the people." The 78-year-old, who served five terms as Bangladesh's prime minister, made the announcement in an audio address at the Foreign Correspondents' Club of South Asia in New Delhi on Wednesday. Her son, Sajeeb Wazed, also joined via video link from Washington, D.C. Sponsor Message Hasina's speech marked the second anniversary of her ouster. She fled Bangladesh by helicopter following weeks of protests in 2024 that left nearly 1,400 people dead, according to the United Nations. World Bangladesh's first fair vote in years comes with a daunting to-do list Hasina has denied any wrongdoing during that period. Hasina blames uprising on 'coordinated assault' Enlarge this image Students shout slogans during a protest demanding the trial of former Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina in Dhaka, Bangladesh, Tuesday, Aug. 13, 2024. Rajib Dhar/AP hide caption toggle caption Rajib Dhar/AP Students shout slogans during a protest demanding the trial of former Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina in Dhaka, Bangladesh, Tuesday, Aug. 13, 2024. Rajib Dhar/AP Instead, Hasina on Wednesday blamed the violence on the protesters. "From the beginning, my government tried to resolve the issue peacefully, but it became a coordinated assault on the constitutional order, driven by hidden instruction, organized violence and propaganda," she said. Analysts dispute that characterization. Ali Riaz, a professor of political science at Illinois State University, said the uprising was a response to Hasina's decades-long draconian rule. "The U.N. report proved that state machinery was used against civilians. Killing 1,400 people in less than three weeks demonstrates the ferocity of the actions taken by her government and under her direct instruction," Riaz said. "Her narration of history is simply ignoring the facts of what happened on the ground." Following her departure, Hasina's Awami League party was banned. And in 2025, a tribunal in Dhaka sentenced her to death in absentia for alleged crimes against humanity, among other charges, for her role in the crackdown during the protests. Hasina has dismissed the verdict as legally void. Sponsor Message Asia Bangladesh in the new era Hasina announced Wednesday that she intends to return to Bangladesh in December. Riaz said her return would trigger immediate legal action. "This is a legal requirement. Her conviction stands, there was no appeal, and she is a fugitive. She will have to be taken immediately to jail," he said. Hasina strains Bangladesh-India relations India's Ministry of External Affairs said it had no involvement in organizing the press conference. Bangladesh's Foreign Ministry said in a statement that Dhaka "deeply regrets" that the event took place in India despite its objections. Hasina's exile has strained relations between the two countries, despite India's recent statements that it wants to restore ties. Bangladesh India sheikh hasina Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Elections Progressives see biggest win yet in Michigan, while Trump flexes power over GOP Politics Senate committee set to vote on whether to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress The 'cockroach' in the machine: How Gen Z is rattling South Asia's elites World Unrest mounts in Kashmir as Pakistani security crackdown stokes reform movement World More than 500 people have died in Bangladesh measles outbreak Europe Drone with explosives found at German airport, official sees 'new quality' of threat More Stories From NPR Asia Pakistan's ruling party leads in Kashmir vote despite boycott call by banned group Asia Under China's new 'unity' law, Tibetans fight to preserve language and culture Asia Rare photos of ex-Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi give her family hope World, reordering South Korea ditches 'denuclearization-first' strategy. What will Pyongyang do next? Asia U.S. dollar weakens sharply against the Japanese yen after market interventions Asia A blaze on an Indonesian passenger ferry leaves at least 5 dead and dozens missing Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Politics Senate committee set to vote on whether to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress Europe Drone with explosives found at German airport, official sees 'new quality' of threat Health Dr. Erica Schwartz confirmed as CDC director, filling a leadership vacuum Elections Progressives see biggest win yet in Michigan, while Trump flexes power over GOP Health Black lung rates in Appalachia are high as the 1970s, with thousands of miners sick The Ripple Effect The keepers of the Grateful Dead's history NPR Editors' Picks Healthcare How deep-rooted medical bias creates deadly consequences for addiction patients Politics Celebrity culture is one thing. For TMZ, Congress is the new 'reality show' Sports Gianni Infantino gets internal support at crisis meeting to remain as FIFA president Immigration Small Texas law firm set to receive $150M to represent unaccompanied migrant children World Cafe How Midwest doldrums became a gift for Kevin Morby Politics Progressive Abdul El-Sayed wins Michigan's Democratic primary for Senate Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices