Mark Hughes' son died of sudden adult death syndrome - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions Manchester Mark Hughes' son died of sudden adult death syndrome Image source, Grimsby Town Image caption, Alex Hughes was found collapsed at his home in Macclesfield, Cheshire Published 4 hours ago The son of former Manchester United footballer Mark Hughes died from sudden adult death syndrome, a coroner has found. Alex Hughes was found collapsed at his home in Macclesfield, Cheshire, on 19 June by his two sons. The 38-year-old, who followed his ex-Wales international father into football and held roles in recruitment at Grimsby Town, Manchester City and other clubs, could not be revived by paramedics, his inquest heard. Following his death, Mark Hughes and his wife Jill said they were "totally heartbroken by the sudden and unexpected loss of our beloved son". Sudden adult death syndrome (SADS) - also known as sudden arrhythmic syndrome - is diagnosed when the cause of death cannot be explained in a post-mortem examination because the structure of the heart appears normal. It affects about 500 people in the UK every year. The British Heart Foundation said SADS "usually happens when a dangerously abnormal heart rhythm goes untreated and leads to a cardiac arrest". The foundation added that inherited heart conditions are "often the cause of SADS if the person who has it doesn't know they do". Image source, PA Media Image caption, Mark Hughes said he and his wife Jill were "devastated" by Alex's death In a statement released through the League Managers Association, former Manchester City, Stoke and Blackburn manager Hughes said: "Alex was a wonderful son, brother to Curtis and Xenna, devoted husband and father to Jessica and their two beautiful children Sebastian and Leonardo. "Alex was player recruitment lead at Grimsby Town FC, and had many good friends and colleagues. He will be so deeply missed by us all." Alex Hughes had a brief playing career, on the books of Stockport and Wrexham, before joining Blackburn in 2007, working as a performance analyst during his father's time as manager. He then followed his father to Manchester City in 2008 and worked with him again at Fulham before forging his own path abroad. He joined Grimsby in 2025. The club's head coach David Artell described him as "just such a good guy", adding: "Life can be really cruel." Get in touch Tell us which stories we should cover in Greater Manchester Contact form Contact form Listen to the best of BBC Radio Manchester on Sounds and follow BBC Manchester on Facebook , external , X , external , and Instagram , external . You can also send story ideas via Whatsapp to 0808 100 2230. More on this story Grimsby Town boss pays tribute to Alex Hughes Published 2 days ago Wales legend Mark Hughes carries his son's coffin as he pays final respects Published 8 July From other local news sites Emmerdale's Isabel Hodgins adorable baby snap at popular Swinton coffee shop External Manchester Evening News Murder suspects bailed after man dies after alleged assault in Wigan External Manchester Evening News Oasis, Marcus Rashford and Aitch star in giant free Manchester exhibition External Bolton News Major refurbishment approved for petrol station to replace old equipment External Warrington Guardian Thriller novel inspired by Warrington and its industrial heritage to be released soon External Warrington Guardian Developer seeking permission for homes on green belt land occupied by stables External Knutsford Guardian Information about BBC links to other news sites The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:58 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns. 00:00:58, play video Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 1:19 England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations. 00:01:19, play video England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia Top stories Live . Major disruption on railways in northern England after Manchester power failure 12810 viewing 13k viewing Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases Published 1 hour ago Live . FA withdraw support for Infantino as Uefa say World Cup boycott may still go ahead 13576 viewing 14k viewing More to explore The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Rihanna is 'in the studio', says partner A$AP Rocky Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives Why aren't more women getting into padel? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order 2 Mark Hughes' son died of sudden adult death syndrome 3 Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' 4 Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases 5 Nadia Sawalha threatens ITV with legal action over Loose Women removal 6 Ukraine hits two oil refineries deep in Russian territory 7 Meredith Kercher's sister criticises Amanda Knox comedy show 8 All of England's rivers and lakes polluted with chemicals, officials say 9 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 10 All schools in England to get pupil attendance targets, government says BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.