‘We expected it, but now it’s here’: on the frontline of Australia’s bird flu outbreak, people are distressed | Bird flu | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Environment Climate crisis Wildlife Energy Pollution Green light A dead greater crested tern found at Pelican Point on the Limestone Coast in South Australia. Photograph: Veronica Miller View image in fullscreen A dead greater crested tern found at Pelican Point on the Limestone Coast in South Australia. Photograph: Veronica Miller Australian climate and environmental reporting Bird flu ‘We expected it, but now it’s here’: on the frontline of Australia’s bird flu outbreak, people are distressed As Australia prepares for the H5 bird flu to potentially rip through hundreds of species, residents of the Limestone Coast are already seeing the impacts Follow our Australia news live blog for latest updates Get our breaking news email , free app or daily news podcast Supported by About this content Petra Stock Thu 6 Aug 2026 11.00 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 17.55 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google It has only been three weeks since H5 bird flu was detected on South Australia’s Limestone Coast and already encounters with sick or dead birds are becoming commonplace. Maureen Christie, who lives in the seaside town of Carpenter Rocks, has been observing and protecting birds in the region for decades. She is now witnessing many stricken and suffering. “It’s just awful,” Christie said, who helped establish the Friends of Shorebirds SE more than 20 years ago. “We expected it but, now it’s here, it’s just traumatic.” The state’s south-east is renowned for its bird life, she said, which includes resident hooded plovers and oyster catchers, along with fly-ins from other countries, such as double-banded plovers, red-necked stints, sanderlings and ruddy turnstones. Sign up for the Breaking News Australia email Locals have been following state government advice to “avoid, record and report”, she said. Christie said many people have been getting in touch by email and phone to relay their own sightings and reports. “Everybody’s feeling distressed, but everybody’s trying to be supportive of one another.” Since the first case in a local Australian seabird – a greater crested tern – was detected in early July, the region has seen dozens more suspected and confirmed cases, including the first confirmed mass mortality event at Baudin Rocks , a group of islets about 8km from the coastal town of Robe. “Robe has a very special and unique environment that the local community knows, uses, celebrates and cares for,” the president of Friends of Little Dip Conservation Park and Robe Coast Care, Roland Wells, said. There’s everything from migratory, coastal and inland birds, wombats, wallabies and echidnas, as well as marine mammals such as sea lions, seals and dolphins. He said people have undertaken conservation work over many decades to support shorebirds, which makes the recent arrival of bird flu “very upsetting”. The situation has escalated considerably over the past week. Council officers from Robe district council have been identifying and reporting sick and deceased birds almost daily, mainly greater crested terns and some silver gulls. Penguins and dolphins among nearly 400 Australian species under threat from bird flu as ‘true extent of disaster’ revealed Read more A spokesperson for South Australia’s primary industries department said crested terns – which make up many of the bird flu cases – “commonly commingle” with other species like cormorants, gulls, grebes, ducks and other tern species. This increases the potential for transmission. “From a conservation perspective, several threatened and priority species have been identified as high risk, including fairy terns ,” the spokesperson said. “Marine mammals are also being closely monitored, with Australian sea lions and long-nosed fur seals among the species considered most vulnerable to potential impacts from the virus.” Wildlife carers and clinics – now required to don personal protective equipment and undertake strict cleaning and quarantine measures when dealing with other wild birds injured by cars, in dog and cat attacks or entanglement – have been calling on the state government for support. Mish Simpson, from SKER wildlife veterinary centre, said the clinic was already at capacity before bird flu. But now, more wild birds are being brought in because other vets have stopped accepting them, partly due to the additional requirements and the risk of exposure for other animals. Simpson is concerned there is not enough emphasis on slowing the spread, which would give vets, carers and the community more time to prepare. For example, she said, the dead bodies of infected birds are often being left in the environment, where they pose an infection risk to other wildlife, particularly scavengers. As the federal environment minister, Murray Watt, observed on Monday , the events rapidly unfolding in the south-east, and around Australia, are “the beginning of what is likely to be a long, difficult journey in terms of the impacts on wildlife”. In Victoria , the chief veterinary officer, Dr Graeme Cooke, said recent aerial and ground surveillance near Portland and Nelson has already shown “a clear increase in the number of dead terns along that part of the coast”, consistent with deaths in South Australia. “Last week we talked about individual detections; the first cases of the H5 bird flu in Victoria. We are now seeing a change.” What that means for hundreds of native species and the people who care for them remains uncertain. Explore more on these topics Bird flu Australian climate and environmental reporting South Australia Victoria Wildlife Birds news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story School in remote SA Indigenous community on list of places where accused paedophile worked 15 Jul 2026 Penguins and dolphins among nearly 400 Australian species under threat from bird flu as ‘true extent of disaster’ revealed 3d ago Suspected mass bird flu deaths found in second state as Murray Watt warns ‘this is the beginning’ 4d ago Dolphin deaths in South Australia spike after algal bloom decimates food sources 13 Jul 2026 Seven suspected new bird flu cases are ‘evidence of spread’ into Australian wildlife, experts warn 27 Jul 2026 The last continent: how deadly bird flu travelled the world before landing on a remote Australian beach 27 Jun 2026 Deadly H5 bird flu found in local Australian seabird for first time 10 Jul 2026 Bird flu confirmed in South Australia as infected petrel brings deadly H5N1 cases to three 24 Jun 2026 AFL great Tony Modra in critical condition after truck crash near Adelaide 19 Jun 2026 Bird flu?! Seriously? Can somebody tell this virus it’s really not a good time 6 Jul 2026 … … comments Most viewed Most viewed Environment Climate crisis Wildlife Energy Pollution Green light News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)