Half of vaccines are binned - this plant could change that - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Health Half of vaccines are binned - 'fridge-free' versions could change that Image source, NIHR Image caption, Hannah Kedzia taking part in the clinical trial in April 2025 By James Gallagher Health and science correspondent Published 6 August 2026, 00:14 BST Vaccines that do not need to be kept cool in a fridge have been successfully trialled in patients for the first time, say UK scientists. Currently, most vaccines need to be refrigerated or frozen - but around half are wasted each year, mainly because they become unusable after getting too hot or too cold. In the trial, which involved 60 volunteers, company Stablepharma converted a liquid tetanus-diphtheria vaccine into a "fridge-free" version by keeping it as a dry powder for a year at room temperature before mixing it with water and injecting it. The 'cold chain' challenge Vaccines often need strict temperature control during storage and transportation, from the moment of manufacture up until being injected into a patient's arm. This practice is known as the "cold chain" and is especially challenging in the poorest and most remote parts of the world or in war zones, where fridges may be scarce and electricity unreliable. The UK's National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) has been testing the new "fridge-free" approach. The new technology is inspired by resurrection plants, which dry out and appear dead during a drought, before springing back to life when it rains. The plants produce large amounts of a sugar called trehalose, which stabilises the plant's cells during a drought. The trial dried out the tetanus-diphtheria vaccine with trehalose to protect its vital components. Image source, Getty Images Image caption, The new technology is inspired by the resurrection plant, which may appear dead but will come back to life when rain arrives Prof Saul Faust, the director of the NIHR Clinical Research Facility in Southampton, said it gave "equivalent" immune responses to the conventional vaccine as well as being "safe and well tolerated" in the early stage studies. Faust added: "This obviously has potential to remove cold chain dependence, reduce wastage and improve access." A larger trial involving 160 people is already due to start in the coming months. This would be the final stage of research as the original vaccine is already approved and licensed so there is no requirement to perform large-stage trials needed for a novel vaccine. The studies are being done to meet the World Health Organization's (WHO) goal of a vaccine that survives at 30C and 75% relative humidity. But the research team say separate data shows the components of their vaccine also survive cycling between temperatures of -20C and +40C. That could mean the vaccine being viable after transport in a cold aircraft hold and then in the back of a truck in the heat. There is not one single reason vaccines are wasted and disposed of, but the WHO estimates this is the fate of half of all vaccines globally. This can include damage in transport, passing the expiration date, and unused doses from multi-dose vials, but a major factor are failures in the cold chain. Image source, Getty Images Image caption, The final stage of the "cold chain", with vaccines being kept in coolers at remote clinics Prof Sir Jonathan Van-Tam, the former deputy chief medical officer for England and an advisor to Stablepharma, used to work in remote field clinics. "I can remember taking out vaccines in cool boxes… doing that on really inhospitable roads where one couldn't predict getting from A to B in a short period of time and there was always this nervousness about maintaining the cold chain in time to get the vaccines into arms of waiting children." The new mRNA vaccine could not be adapted using this approach, but many current vaccines could be stabilised with the sugar trehalose. It could also work for some medicines – such as monoclonal antibodies – which need to be kept in a fridge. Image source, StablePharma Image caption, Dr Bruce Roser, founder of Stablepharma: "Reliable and safe fridge-free vaccines could be a game-changer for global health" Prof Tuck Seng Wong is the director of the UK-Southeast Asia Vaccine Manufacturing Research Hub but was not involved in the study. He said it was "very exciting" and a "significant breakthrough in UK science". But added there were still "several areas" that still needed investigation, including how stable the vaccines are when the temperature is regularly fluctuating and how well the vaccines perform in both larger and more ethnically diverse groups of people. The findings have been published in eClinicalMedicine, part of the Lancet group of journals. Ephrem Tekle Lemango, the associate director of immunization at Unicef, said immunisation was a "life-saving service that depends on refrigeration" so "this innovation could help us vaccinate more children and pave the way for a future of fridge-free vaccines". Dr Bruce Roser, the founder of Stablepharma, said: "Reliable and safe fridge-free vaccines could be a game-changer for global health - helping life-saving vaccines reach millions more people, wherever they live, and making immunisation programmes more sustainable, reliable and equitable for future generations." Work to launch 'fridge-free' vaccine under way Published 29 April 2025 Get our flagship newsletter with all the headlines you need to start the day. Sign up here. Related topics Vaccination Health Medical research The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:58 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns. 00:00:58, play video Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 1:19 England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations. 00:01:19, play video England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia Top stories Live . Major disruption on railways in northern England after Manchester power failure 11959 viewing 12k viewing Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases Published 2 hours ago Live . FA withdraw support for Infantino as Uefa say World Cup boycott may still go ahead 12978 viewing 13k viewing More to explore The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Rihanna is 'in the studio', says partner A$AP Rocky Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives Why aren't more women getting into padel? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order 2 Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' 3 Mark Hughes' son died of sudden adult death syndrome 4 All of England's rivers and lakes polluted with chemicals, officials say 5 Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases 6 Nadia Sawalha threatens ITV with legal action over Loose Women removal 7 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 8 Ukraine hits two oil refineries deep in Russian territory 9 All schools in England to get pupil attendance targets, government says 10 Meredith Kercher's sister criticises Amanda Knox comedy show BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.