Nadia Sawalha threatens legal action against ITV over Loose Women removal - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Entertainment & Arts Nadia Sawalha threatens ITV with legal action over Loose Women removal Image source, Getty Images By Steven McIntosh Entertainment reporter Published 4 hours ago Loose Women panellist Nadia Sawalha has threatened to take legal action against ITV, claiming the network dropped her for speaking out in support of Palestinian rights. A legal organisation representing her has sent a pre-action letter to ITV, claiming the broadcaster "subjected Nadia to direct discrimination, indirect discrimination and harassment because of her protected philosophical beliefs". In an Instagram video , external , Sawalha said she had become "the target of an escalating campaign of smears, complaints, hostile media coverage and targeted calls to have me removed from Loose Women". She added: "Since then, ITV have taken me on and off Loose Women a number of times." BBC News has asked ITV for comment. The presenter said she "began speaking publicly in support of Palestine in December 2023", two months after the 7 October Hamas attacks on Israel and Israel's subsequent military campaign in Gaza. She said she was "speaking out against brutal oppression", but her critics have accused her of promoting false claims and conspiracies about Israel and Jewish people. A group of Jewish executives in the entertainment industry recently sent a dossier to ITV, urging the channel not to reinstate her, citing what they called "repeated examples of conspiratorial rhetoric, inflammatory commentary, disinformation, and antisemitic discourse". Sawalha said she hadn't had a chance to see the document and answer the accusations, but has denied antisemitism. Two newspapers that previously accused Sawalha and her husband of antisemitism and supporting terrorism have since issued apologies and paid damages , external to the couple. In her video on Thursday, Sawalha said she had "mostly been told" by ITV that "the reason for [my removal] was, and I quote, 'It's all a bit noisy out there for us'." 'Changing the goalposts' The controversy, she alleges, prompted ITV to remove her on repeated occasions from the line-up of its long-running lunchtime programme. "ITV have continued to take me on and off Loose Women, forever changing the goalposts whilst also saying they couldn't guarantee they wouldn't take me off again as it would depend on what was said," she said. Sawalha added that she was "hired for being an opinionated woman on a discussion show and I've never brought up or spoken about Palestine directly on the show". The presenter also said she wanted to express "how sad I am that it's got to this - believe me, I have appealed to ITV's hearts and minds, but to no avail". The European Legal Support Center (ELSC) , external , which supports pro-Palestinian cases, has written to ITV on her behalf, alleging she has been discriminated against because of her "anti-Zionist beliefs, which are protected under the Equality Act 2010". Sawalha has appeared regularly on the daytime panel show, which sees four female media personalities discuss topical subjects, since 2013. She also had an earlier stint on the panel between 1999 and 2002, shortly after playing Annie Palmer in EastEnders. Her other TV credits include Casualty and The Bill, and she is also a former winner of Celebrity MasterChef. Related topics Television More on this story Loose Women's Nadia Sawalha brands ITV cuts 'brutal' Published 29 May 2025 University loses appeal over sacked academic Published 1 day ago The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:58 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns. 00:00:58, play video Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 1:19 England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations. 00:01:19, play video England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia Top stories Live . Major disruption on railways in northern England after Manchester power failure 11939 viewing 12k viewing Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases Published 2 hours ago Live . FA withdraw support for Infantino as Uefa say World Cup boycott may still go ahead 12839 viewing 13k viewing More to explore The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Rihanna is 'in the studio', says partner A$AP Rocky Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives Why aren't more women getting into padel? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order 2 Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' 3 Mark Hughes' son died of sudden adult death syndrome 4 All of England's rivers and lakes polluted with chemicals, officials say 5 Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases 6 Nadia Sawalha threatens ITV with legal action over Loose Women removal 7 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 8 Ukraine hits two oil refineries deep in Russian territory 9 All schools in England to get pupil attendance targets, government says 10 Meredith Kercher's sister criticises Amanda Knox comedy show BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.