The serial candidates standing against Farage in Clacton - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat BBC Verify The serial candidates standing against Farage in the Clacton by-election By Rob England and Jess Carr Published 8 hours ago A record number of candidates are standing in next week's Clacton by-election, but some names on the ballot will be more familiar than others. As the main parties are not standing against Reform UK leader Nigel Farage, the 33 other candidates on the ballot are either from smaller political parties or are standing as independents. Eight of these names have already appeared on multiple ballot papers elsewhere in the UK however, including Reclaim Party leader Laurence Fox and satirical candidates Count Binface and Howling Laud Hope. BBC Verify has taken a look at the serial candidates who have decided to stand in Clacton, how they have fared in previous elections, and whether they have ever won enough votes to save their £500 parliamentary - or £10,000 London mayor - deposits. Who are the serial candidates? The Clacton by-election takes place on 13 August, and because there are a total of 34 people contesting the seat it means people in the constituency will be casting their votes on what is understood to be the longest ballot paper in British electoral history. There are eight candidates standing against Farage who, including the current race in Clacton, will have made at least three attempts to be voted into Westminster or to become London's mayor. They are: Rejoin EU candidate John Stevens, Social Democratic Party leader William Clouston, Reclaim leader Laurence Fox, independent Joseph 77, Count Binface, and three candidates from the Monster Raving Loony Party - leader Howling Laud Hope, Nick the Incredible Flying Brick and Baron Von Thunderclap. Image caption, The Clacton by-election ballot paper Who can stand in a by-election? UK electoral law does not prevent a registered political party from fielding more than one candidate in a parliamentary by-election. Each candidate must have a valid nomination and be authorised by the party's nominating officer. Nigel Farage has previously stood in seven parliamentary contests since 1994, and successfully became an MP for Clacton in the 2024 general election. Parliamentary candidates do not have to be from the area they want to stand in to appear on the ballot, but they do have to be nominated by 10 people who live in the constituency. A £500 deposit is also required to validate their candidacy, which they only get back if they achieve more than 5% of the vote share. Mayoral elections have stricter eligibility rules. For example, in London candidates must either live, work or be registered to vote in the capital, or rent or own a property in the city. They must also get at least 10 nominations from each London borough and at least 10 from the City of London, and win more than 5% of the vote share to have their £10,000 deposit returned. Howling Laud Hope Image source, Getty Images Howling Laud Hope, the leader of the Official Monster Raving Loony Party, has previously stood in 37 parliamentary elections since 1983. Real name Alan Hope, the party leader challenged David Cameron's seat when he was elected prime minister in 2010, and stood against former prime minister Theresa May in the 2017 general election. He gained his highest share of the vote in the 2011 Leicester South by-election, which was held by Labour. Hope finished last of five candidates, with 553 votes, or 1.6%. He has never won enough votes to get back a £500 parliamentary deposit. Previous attempts: 37 Deposits lost: 37 Nick the Incredible Flying Brick Nick the Incredible Flying Brick, whose real name is Nick Delves, has previously stood for the Official Monster Raving Loony Party in 13 parliamentary contests. He stood against former prime minister Sir Keir Starmer in the 2024 general election, but his highest share of the vote came in West Derbyshire at the 2001 general election, when the Conservatives held the seat. He finished fifth of six candidates with 472 votes, or 0.9% of all votes. Like Hope, he has never won enough votes to get back a £500 parliamentary deposit. Previous attempts: 13 Deposits lost: 13 Joseph 77 Image source, Joseph 77 Tom Darwood, who stands under the name Joseph 77, has previously contested seven parliamentary elections. The strongest of those runs came in Southend West in Essex at the 2019 general election. He received 574 votes, or 1.2%, in a seat held by the Conservatives. Darwood has never won enough votes to get back a £500 parliamentary deposit. Previous attempts: 7 Deposits lost: 7 Count Binface Image source, Getty Images Count Binface is the satirical alter ego of comedian Jon Harvey, who has previously stood in four parliamentary elections and two London mayoral elections. As Count Binface, Harvey has been on the same ballot as two sitting prime ministers during a general election - Boris Johnson in 2019 and Rishi Sunak in 2024 - and separately stood as a different character, Lord Buckethead, against Theresa May in Maidenhead in 2017. In 2023 Count Binface stood in the Uxbridge and South Ruislip by-election after Johnson resigned as an MP, and in June this year he stood against now prime minister Andy Burnham in the Makerfield by-election. His best parliamentary result came in the Richmond and Northallerton vote against Sunak in the 2024 general election. He gained 308 votes - 0.6% of the total share - and finished sixth out of 13 candidates. He has not previously won enough votes to get back any of his deposits. Previous attempts: 6 Deposits lost: 6 Baron Von Thunderclap Image source, Monster Raving Loony Party Baron Von Thunderclap - real name Peter Berry - is the third Official Monster Raving Loony Party candidate on the ballot. He previously stood in six parliamentary elections. The Clacton contest is his first parliamentary by-election however, and his first parliamentary race outside Mid Sussex. His strongest turnout was during the 2001 general election, when he received 601 votes, or 1.3% of the vote share. He finished fifth out of five candidates and the Conservatives held the seat. He has never won enough votes to get back a £500 parliamentary deposit. Previous attempts: 6 Deposits lost: 6 John Stevens Image source, Rejoin EU Party Former Conservative MEP John Stevens, who is standing for the Rejoin EU Party, has previously appeared on the ballot in four parliamentary elections. His best result came as an independent in Buckingham in the 2010 general election, when he challenged then speaker of the House of Commons John Bercow. The main parties do not usually stand against the Speaker in a general election, and Stevens finished second of 11 candidates with 10,331 votes, a 21.4% vote share. Farage also challenged Bercow for the seat that year and came third. It means Stevens is the only Clacton candidate to have stood against and won more votes than Farage in a parliamentary contest. Stevens also gained enough votes to qualify to have his deposit returned. Previous attempts: 4 Deposits lost: 3 William Clouston Image source, William Clouston William Clouston, the leader of the Social Democratic Party, previously stood in two parliamentary elections. His best result came in Hexham, Northumberland, in the 2024 general election, when Labour gained the seat from the Conservatives. Clouston finished last of six candidates with 1,211 votes, or 2.3% of the vote share. He did not win enough votes in either contest to get back his £500 parliamentary deposit. Previous attempts: 2 Deposits lost: 2 Laurence Fox Image source, PA Media Actor turned right-wing commentator Laurence Fox, of the Reclaim Party, has previously stood in one parliamentary by-election and one London mayoral election. His only parliamentary contest before Clacton was the 2023 Uxbridge and South Ruislip by-election. Fox finished fourth out of 17 candidates. The Conservatives held the seat, while Fox received 714 votes, or a 2.3% share of the vote. He did not win enough votes to get back either of his deposits. Previous attempts: 2 Deposits lost: 2 Which records did we look at? For this analysis, the BBC counted previous UK House of Commons elections and elections for Mayor of London. The current Clacton contest counts towards the three-contest threshold to be included in the analysis. Local council elections, local and combined-authority mayoral elections, devolved legislatures, European Parliament elections and London Assembly elections were excluded. What claims do you want BBC Verify to investigate? Related topics Nigel Farage Reform UK The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia 0:50 Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea. 00:00:50, play video Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea 1:01 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller. 00:01:01, play video 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:49 Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales. 00:00:49, play video Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales 0:59 The city closing down streets so children can play. 00:00:59, play video The city closing down streets so children can play 1:23 The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII. 00:01:23, play video The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII 1:30 What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK. 00:01:30, play video What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK 0:37 Crispy butter beans with whipped feta. 00:00:37, play video Crispy butter beans with whipped feta 0:57 Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites. 00:00:57, play video Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport Top stories Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate Published 1 hour ago Infantino remains Fifa president after executive meeting Published 27 minutes ago Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London Published 5 hours ago More to explore The cost of being single – and how friends are teaming up to beat it From flip flops to fisherman's sandals: How to look after your feet this summer 'My grandmother subjected my baby to female genital mutilation behind my back' 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' Kate Nash on Irish history, heritage and covering Sinéad O'Connor There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media 'This year has been the worst for my heat anxiety' Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Love shouldn't feel like fear How hydrated do you really need to be? Melvin Odoom on the MiniDiscs he can't throw away The origin story of the first Comic Con Most read 1 Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London 2 University of Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 3 El-Sayed's victory sends tremors through Democratic Party 4 See the Sun like never before with most detailed images yet 5 Iran says it has agreed Strait of Hormuz shipping route with Oman 6 Family 'devastated' by death of girl, 9, as man charged with murder 7 Student loan repayment rates an 'unsustainable burden', chancellor told 8 Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate 9 Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England 10 Apology after carer fed dog food to elderly woman by mistake BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.