Cambodia is the newest country to hit an elusive HIV target : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Cambodia is the newest country to hit an elusive HIV target The United Nations has set a goal for near universal HIV diagnosis and treatment for all by 2030. No country in Asia has hit the mark — until this year. Global Health This country is the latest to hit the elusive 95/95/95 HIV target August 6, 2026 9:13 AM ET By Durrie Bouscaren What Cambodia did right about preventing HIV Listen · 4:15 4-Minute Listen Playlist Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/g-s1-137460/nx-s1-9873843" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Transcript Cambodia is the first country in Asia to meet the U.N. targets for controlling HIV. Above: A vendor in Phnom Penh sits by a banner marking World AIDS Day. Tang Chhin Sothy/AFP via Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Tang Chhin Sothy/AFP via Getty Images Only 11 countries in the world can say this: Ninety-five percent of people living there who are HIV positive know their status. Ninety-five percent of HIV-positive people are taking medication that lowers the amount of the virus in their body. And 95% of people on HIV medication have a viral load so low, they're considered virally suppressed. This means they have an almost zero risk of passing HIV on to their partners. In June, Cambodia became the first country in the Asia-Pacific region to reach this milestone, which the U.N. has set as a goal for every country to achieve by the year 2030. The 95-95-95 targets were called ambitious and daunting when UNAIDS set them in 2020. Sponsor Message But since then, 11 nations, most of which are in Africa, have achieved them . Denmark is the one European nation on the list. Many Asian countries — including wealthy ones like Japan and South Korea — have struggled to make these gains, says Dr. Annette Sohn , director of amfAR's TREAT Asia program, a network of clinics and researchers serving people with HIV. "Sometimes people will think — why is it that we are not able to manage HIV control?" Sohn says. "The No. 1 challenge continues to be stigma." That stigma might be a feeling of shame that keeps a person from getting tested for HIV or from visiting a clinic for treatment. People living with HIV also face discrimination, which can make navigating the healthcare system a struggle. Sohn says this is how Cambodia succeeded: Advocates recognized that people seek healthcare where they feel accepted and used this strategy to save lives. Health Amid U.S. funding cuts, the International AIDS Conference faces an uncertain future "I moved to the countryside ... to die" Sophal Seum is an advocate for people living with HIV. When he himself was infected in 2000, he lost his job after then-mandatory testing revealed his status. Today, he is on medication to control the virus. "I can survive," he says, "because I have hope." hide caption toggle caption At the peak of the AIDS crisis, as many as 15,000 people in Cambodia were dying each year from a virus that had no cure and no vaccine. Before 1998, there was no medication to prevent HIV from destroying a patient's immune system, leaving them vulnerable to infections and rare cancers. "We heard it was a strange, deadly virus," recalls Sophal Seum. "People were scared of HIV." The virus tore through brothels and nightclubs but quickly reached the general public. By 1999, about 2% of adults between the ages of 15 and 49 had contracted HIV. At the time, Seum was a young hotel worker near Angkor Wat, an ancient Hindu temple that attracts millions of visitors each year. He says he lost his job after testing positive for HIV in 2000 and struggled to find a new one. Many jobs at the time required blood tests, he says. The practice was banned in 2002. Sponsor Message "In 2006, I moved to the countryside — to die, you know," Seum told NPR. His wife and children joined him. But with medication, and the help of a program providing home-based care, Seum recovered. Today, he is a national advocate for people living with HIV. Seum organizes community meetings for people living with HIV, making sure their needs are met, and offers counseling, especially to young people. "It's not a full recovery, but I try to ride my bicycle to work," he says. "I can survive, because I have hope." Cambodia had the political will Cambodia's HIV epidemic peaked in the late 1990s and early 2000s, when about 180,000 people had contracted the virus . Today, the national rate has dipped from more than 2% to below 0.5%, and the vast majority of Cambodia's estimated 76,000 citizens living with HIV are on medication. Chamreun Chob Sok is the executive director of KHANA, the Khmer HIV/AIDS NGO Alliance. It's Cambodia's largest network of nonprofits working to prevent HIV and support people living with the virus. Sok has worked on HIV prevention for almost the entirety of his career. He says the country's response succeeded thanks to three main factors. First, Sok says, Cambodia had the political will to do this. Cambodia is a constitutional monarchy. In the '90s, both the king and the elected government wanted to prioritize HIV prevention efforts. In 1999, the country launched a public health campaign encouraging couples to use condoms 100% of the time, under the slogan "No condom, no sex." During those early years, more than 80% of sex workers reported using condoms. Later, in 2003, the Cambodian government made HIV medication free with an $11.2 million grant provided by the Global Fund. Based in Geneva, the international financing group provides grants to countries for HIV, tuberculosis and malaria relief. The United States is the fund's largest donor. Sponsor Message Early programs in Cambodia focused on groups of people who had heightened rates of HIV: the military, police, garment factory workers and sex workers. As HIV rates shrank among the general population, Sok says, the epidemic became more concentrated among high-risk groups, who were harder to reach. "What we call it now, is that Cambodia is under a concentrated epidemic. This means HIV transmission is occurring among a key and vulnerable population," Sok says. To tackle the concentrated epidemic, Cambodian community health workers had to get creative. Sok's perspective is that the best solutions are created by people with lived experience. Proudly, he lists off KHANA's programs: There is SmartGirl, an intervention organized by women who previously worked in nightclubs, bars or other places where sex work is common. (Sok prefers the term female entertainment worker in an effort to reduce stigma.) Through KHANA, the women organized HIV finger-prick testing drives in their former workplaces. Then, they offered counseling and helped women who were HIV positive get medical care and other support. "They became lay counselors. They became the people who go and conduct outreach," Sok says. "They're run by themselves, reaching their peers." Men who sleep with men are another demographic with a high risk of HIV in Cambodia. Through KHANA, they created their own outreach, Sok says — including community hubs with coffee shops and internet access . For a third project, transgender counselors created a program called Srey Sros: "Beautiful Woman" in the Khmer language, which signaled acceptance and safety. "This is a way that can bring people to come to services early," Sok says. "And importantly, they're involved in ensuring the services are friendly." This focus on key populations — demographic groups with the highest rates of HIV, and the highest risk of contracting it — is considered a gold standard of epidemic control. However, after U.S. funding delays and cuts to global HIV prevention, these programs have been among the first on the chopping block in other countries . Sponsor Message "Life with HIV is possible" Dalish Prum is a program manager for CPN+, a support network for people living with HIV. She herself is HIV positive, infected after being abducted and trafficked at age 15. Medication keeps the virus at undetectable levels. She counsels clients: Life with HIV is possible. hide caption toggle caption Cambodia's achievement also rests on the shoulders of people willing to tell their stories. Dalish Prum is a program manager and community health worker for CPN+ , one of Cambodia's largest support networks for people living with HIV. When she was 15 years old, Prum was abducted and trafficked to the Thai border. Although she was quickly rescued, she fell sick months later. When she tested positive for HIV in 2003, she was still in high school. "I cried almost every day for three years," Prum recalls. "I thought I will die soon, I cannot learn, I cannot study, I cannot graduate or make a family." Prum drew strength from her supportive parents. She finished her studies and began working for HIV prevention programs, speaking at international conferences and becoming a leader in the country's efforts. She fell in love, married and had a little girl in 2018. Today, Prum takes medication to keep her HIV to undetectable levels in her body, preventing health complications. She says people living with HIV in Cambodia still face challenges, especially in healthcare settings. But the 95-95-95 achievement signals that the work she and her colleagues are doing makes a difference. And this is what she often tells the clients she counsels: Life with HIV is possible. "Honestly, please love yourself," she says. "You have dignity." For stories about life in our changing world, subscribe to NPR's Global Health newsletter. HIV Cambodia Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Health A new flu vaccine geared to older people is coming soon Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after Politics Senate Homeland Security committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress Trump's Terms Trump's third check-up at Walter Reed raises more questions about his health : Trump's Terms News Frontier Airlines plane strikes and kills pedestrian TV Reviews 'Furious' is an unforgettable thriller, not just a 'Black Widow' remake More Stories From NPR Global Health They're a world leader in using drones for healthcare. But drones can't do it all Global Health Why is the rate of premature births so high in this community? Global Health How these slum dwellers went from one-room shacks to beautiful new apartments Global Health Keeping cool without AC: Our readers share their tips Global Health Animal spillover? Lab leak? What the science says about the origins of COVID-19 Science Anthony Fauci invokes Fifth Amendment in Rand Paul Senate hearing Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after Middle East conflict Iran aims to ban U.S. and Israeli ships from Strait of Hormuz and charge others a toll Politics Senate Homeland Security committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress Health A new flu vaccine geared to older people is coming soon Politics The park service says Trump's arch would obstruct historic sites. Could it be moved? Education Trump administration moves to deregulate Head Start, opening door for sweeping change NPR Editors' Picks Research News Sticky or slippery? Snails can change their slime to meet the moment Author Interviews Death is everywhere in the desert — it's where Claire Vaye Watkins feels most alive Sports European nations say World Cup boycott is still on, keeping FIFA's Infantino in limbo TV Reviews 'Furious' is an unforgettable thriller, not just a 'Black Widow' remake Politics Celebrity culture is one thing. For TMZ, Congress is the new 'reality show' The Ripple Effect The keepers of the Grateful Dead's history Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices