UK weather: Fifth heatwave of year likely as temperatures could hit 35C - BBC Weather BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Weather Menu Home Weather Warnings Flood Warnings Monthly Outlook Coast and Sea Help Fifth heatwave of the year likely next week as temperatures could hit 35C Image source, Gettty By Simon King Lead Weather Presenter Published 8 August 2026, 01:37 BST Heat will once again build across the UK this weekend before the fifth widespread heatwave of the year is likely to be declared next week. From Sunday and into next week, temperatures could exceed 30C in south-east England. Yellow heat health alerts have been issued for most of England until Tuesday, warning of impacts for health and social care services and an increased risk to life for vulnerable people. These are likely to be updated by the UK Health Security Agency in the coming days as a widespread heatwave develops. Image caption, Heat health alerts come into force across most of England on Saturday How hot will it get? Temperatures on Saturday will begin to climb above average again, reaching the mid- to high 20s Celsius in most of England and Wales. It will be cooler in Scotland and Northern Ireland at 17 to 21C with more cloud, a bit of rain and a blustery wind. By Sunday and into next week temperatures will rise even further with many parts of the UK exceeding their heatwave threshold temperature of 25 to 28C, depending on location. With this hotter weather expected to last well into the week, many locations will have the three consecutive days needed to declare the fifth widespread heatwave of the year. It has already been a remarkable summer in the United Kingdom with multiple records broken. July has been the sunniest month on record for the UK, as well as the driest July on record for England and Wales. There have so far been 33 days this year when temperatures have exceeded 30C in the UK. Next week, it is likely the record of 34 days, set in 1995, will be broken. For the first time ever, a temperature of 35C has also been recorded somewhere in the UK on the three consecutive months of May, June and July. It is possible August will join that list by the end of next week as some forecast models suggest 35C in central and south-east England. Image source, Getty Image caption, Scorched ground is a familiar sight now across many parts of the UK as the very dry weather continues No significant rain in sight Some rain is forecast for Scotland and Northern Ireland on Saturday before reaching northern England and north Wales on Sunday; elsewhere, it is likely to remain dry. Wisley in Surrey is now up to 51 days without recording any rain. This could easily rise to 60 days with no rain in the forecast across southern England. Despite the ongoing dry weather, August is typically the wettest of the summer months across the UK. There are signs that the second half of the month could become unsettled as low pressure becomes more dominant. However, with no significant rain in sight across England and Wales, the current drought conditions with hosepipe bans will show no sign of easing. More on this story How much rain will end the drought? Published 1 day ago Is there a hosepipe ban in my area? What you need to know Published 2 days ago Vegetables to get smaller and more expensive due to hot weather, farmers warn Published 3 days ago Features Fifth heatwave of the year likely next week as temperatures could hit 35C Published 15 hours ago Record spells with no rain across parts of central and south-east England Published 1 day ago Weather for the week ahead Video Weather for the week ahead Published 29 minutes ago How much rain will end the drought? Video How much rain will end the drought? Published 1 day ago Is there a hosepipe ban in my area? What you need to know Published 2 days ago Vegetables to get smaller and more expensive due to hot weather, farmers warn Published 3 days ago Looking down on London's straw-coloured parks Published 3 days ago Satellite images show impact of heatwaves and drought on UK landscape Published 31 July Stunning photos capture July's Buck Moon over the UK Published 30 July Elsewhere on the BBC With great power comes great responsibility She's not a bad girl anymore, wink wink wink wink Can a test tell you what's living inside your gut? How much discipline is too much in school? Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.