FAA orders inspections of Boeing 737 Max jets after cracks found in some older planes - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds CBS Evening News | Full Episodes On the Road Watch CBS News CBS Evening News FAA orders inspections of Boeing 737 Max jets after cracks found in some older planes By Kris Van Cleave , Kris Van Cleave Kris Van Cleave Emmy Award-winning journalist Kris Van Cleave is the senior transportation correspondent for CBS News based in Phoenix, Arizona, where he also serves as a national correspondent reporting for all CBS News broadcasts and platforms. Read Full Bio Kris Van Cleave , Kathryn Krupnik Updated on: August 6, 2026 / 10:04 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google The Federal Aviation Administration has ordered inspections of hundreds of Boeing 737 Max jets after cracks were found in parts of some older model Boeing planes. The FAA Thursday issued fuselage inspections for certain 737 Max 8, 737 Max 9 and 737-8200 models after reports of cracks were discovered in the structural reinforcement around the forward service door near the galley on the right side of some older generation 737 planes. The directive applies to 471 planes in the U.S. and 1,429 planes worldwide, according to the FAA. So far, no cracks have been found in Boeing Max jets specifically. The order, though, sets a timeline for mandatory inspections to catch cracks and make any needed repairs before they become a safety issue. The FAA said the cracks that were found in the older planes had developed in what is known as the bear strap, which reinforces areas around doorways and emergency exits. Over time, the stress of takeoffs and landings can lead to cracking near door corners. In a statement provided to CBS News, Boeing said it first notified operators of its 737 Next Generation planes of the issue in 2019, when it provided them with "detailed instructions for conducting the recommended inspections." Boeing said that although the issue has not so far been observed in its 737 Max fleet, in 2024, it "extended the inspections to 737 MAX airplanes as the model shares a similar design and build process" to its Next Generation model. Boeing said it is also conducting analysis to determine the root cause of the cracks and prevent them in future aircraft. Southwest Airlines, which is one of the primary operators of 737 jets in the U.S., told CBS News in a statement that it was "reviewing" the FAA's airworthiness directive and "will accomplish the inspections on the affected airplanes according to the schedule specified by the FAA." A United Airlines spokesperson told CBS News in a statement: "We don't anticipate any impact to our operations in the near term and will accomplish the inspections during heavy maintenance visits. And given where our oldest MAX total flight cycles are right now it won't be for some time until those inspections are due." More from CBS News FAA probing Marine One safety incident around National Airport Behind closed doors, Trump, White House aides hope Rep. Max Miller exits race Trump raises concerns in call with Rep. Max Miller amid abuse allegations House Ethics probing Rep. Max Miller for alleged domestic violence, drug use Go deeper with The Free Press If SNAP Benefits End, Food Pantries Will Be Desperate, Too Will Republicans Renounce Max Miller? In: Federal Aviation Administration Boeing © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Boeing planes to be inspected for cracks FAA orders inspections on hundreds of Boeing 737 Max jets for fuselage cracks 02:12 FAA orders inspections on hundreds of Boeing 737 Max jets for fuselage cracks (02:12) FAA probing Marine One safety incident around National Airport Behind closed doors, Trump, White House aides hope Rep. Max Miller exits race Trump raises concerns in call with Rep. Max Miller amid abuse allegations If SNAP Benefits End, Food Pantries Will Be Desperate, Too Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue