Labor faces fierce backlash from gambling giants as Coalition and Greens push for new controls on inducements | Gambling | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters Anika Wells says the government is having constructive discussions with the opposition on gambling reform and ‘we’d love to see this pass’. Photograph: Lukas Coch/AAP View image in fullscreen Anika Wells says the government is having constructive discussions with the opposition on gambling reform and ‘we’d love to see this pass’. Photograph: Lukas Coch/AAP Gambling Labor faces fierce backlash from gambling giants as Coalition and Greens push for new controls on inducements Despite reports the PM wants Labor’s bill to be passed in full or withdrawn, Anika Wells insists she is prepared to negotiate Follow our Australia news live blog for latest updates Get our breaking news email , free app or daily news podcast Tom McIlroy Political editor Thu 6 Aug 2026 04.10 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 04.11 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Labor will face strong opposition from gambling giants if it accedes to Coalition and Greens demands for a tough new ban on financial inducements for betting, part of closely watched Senate dealmaking expected within days. Despite reports on Thursday that the prime minister, Anthony Albanese, could insist Labor’s bill to limit advertising for online sports betting be passed in full or be withdrawn, the communications minister, Anika Wells, insisted she was prepared to negotiate. After a two-day inquiry including sensational evidence that gambling companies allegedly provided illegal drugs and access to sex workers to keep problem gamblers betting, Wells is waiting on amendments from the Coalition, due to be finalised in party room meetings next week. Labor’s gambling reform friendless as Coalition withholds support amid drug and sex worker allegations Read more “We’re having constructive discussions,” Wells said on Thursday. “I’ll continue to do that with my counterparts. We’d love to see this pass. “I would wait for the Coalition to form a position and to put those amendments to the government, exactly as this process always plays out when we try to put any piece of legislation through the Parliament.” Debate on the bill was supercharged by sensational evidence from former NRL player Luke Bateman and veteran anti-gambling campaigner Tim Costello this week. Sign up for the Breaking News Australia email They alleged problem gamblers had been supplied with cocaine, alcohol and sex workers , part of efforts from gambling company VIP managers to keep big-spending punters betting as long as possible. Betting giants who appeared before the inquiry at a later session said there was no evidence to support the allegations. Opponents of Labor’s bill have pointed to a landmark inquiry report delivered by the late MP Peta Murphy in June 2023. Murphy’s committee recommended the government “prohibit all online gambling inducements and inducement advertising, and that it do so without delay”. Separately last month, Labor’s national conference agreed to explore how to better prevent online gaming and social media platforms from offering “embedded inducements” within video games and social media accounts designed to incentivise and normalise gambling among children and young people. The Labor backbencher Jerome Laxale on Thursday challenged the opposition to bring forward constructive amendments to advance a ban on the financial incentives offered to punters. He said he would welcome Labor’s draft laws “being strengthened in the Senate”. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | When needed Sign up to Breaking News Australia Get the most important news as it breaks Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion The acting opposition leader, Jane Hume, said the shadow communications minister, Sarah Henderson, was negotiating for new controls over inducements, suggesting gambling companies were using them to “essentially entice people to maintain their problem gambling addiction”. “We want to make sure that these laws are actually delivering on their purpose, that they find the balance between what is a legal pastime, but making sure that we protect the most vulnerable,” she said. The chief executive of lobby group Responsible Wagering Australia, Kai Cantwell, said further bans on inducements were a non-starter for the gambling industry, drawing a distinction between inducements and “promotions”. He accused members of the Senate committee considering Labor’s bill of mistakenly grouping together appropriate promotions and illegal inducements. “They are about product differentiation and customer loyalty,” he told ABC radio. “We provide personalised services to the entire customer base. That is the benefit of account-based gambling. We understand our customers’ betting trends and patterns and can provide tailored consumer protections to our customer base as well, based on trends of betting and potential risk factors.” Labor MPs including Louise Miller-Frost and Alicia Payne told Guardian Australia this week that the draft legislation should be significantly strengthened . Explore more on these topics Gambling Australian politics news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story ‘Performative reductions’: Labor MPs and business groups urge Burke against sweeping immigration changes 33m ago Labor’s gambling reform friendless as Coalition withholds support amid drug and sex worker allegations 1d ago Labor MPs urge Albanese to go harder on gambling reform amid illicit drug and sex worker allegations 2d ago ‘Orange elephant in the room’: Pauline Hanson’s political rise is inspiring racism, inquiry hears 2h ago Sportsbet and Tabcorp deny allegations they sourced drugs and sex workers to encourage VIP clients to bet more 2d ago Australian politician admits to sending text saying ‘my job is boring’ during a hearing 2h ago Luke Bateman tells inquiry gambling companies supplied him with cocaine and alcohol 3d ago Labor MP Ed Husic taken to hospital with fractures and concussion after car crash 10h ago Nearly 1,500 properties bought using first home buyers’ 5% deposit scheme converted into investments 18h ago I spent many of my childhood weekends among gamblers in the local TAB. That seems almost quaint now 11 Jul 2026 … … comments Most viewed Most viewed Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)