Rep. Jim Jordan raises alarms over new South Korean fake news law Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Politics & Policy Rep. Jim Jordan, House Republicans raise alarms over new South Korean 'fake news' law Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 1:00 PM EDT Updated Thu, Aug 6 2026 1:15 PM EDT Justin Papp @in/justin-papp @justinjpapp1 WATCH LIVE Key Points Republican members of the House Judiciary Committee on Thursday sent a letter, reported first by CNBC, to South Korean officials expressing their concern over an amendment to an existing data privacy law they say could lead to the stifling of free speech. The amendment to South Korea's Information and Communications Network Act was adopted by the country's National Assembly in December and took effect in July. It would allow the government to issue steep fines to media outlets and online publishers who knowingly publish false information. The letter comes at a time of economic tension between the U.S. and South Korea, and weeks after President Donald Trump slapped new tariffs on Korea and dozens of other countries. In this article ANTHR.FG Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Rep. Jim Jordan (R-OH) speaks to reporters as he arrives for a House Republican conference meeting on Capitol Hill on March, 6 2024 in Washington, DC. Kent Nishimura | Getty Images House Judiciary Committee Republicans sent a letter to the South Korea 's Media and Communications Commission on Thursday expressing their concern over recently adopted online regulations they say could allow the government to censor free speech and attack opposing viewpoints. The letter, reported first by CNBC, calls for a briefing from South Korean officials on their plans to enforce an amendment to the country's existing data privacy law , which took effect in July and has been dubbed the "fake news" law. It allows the government to issue fines to media outlets and content publishers with more than 100,000 subscribers if they intentionally spread false information. "This amendment serves as a major threat to online speech and expression and would allow the KMCC to punish American companies and their users for exercising their constitutionally protected rights," the lawmakers, including House Judiciary Committee Chair Jim Jordan , R-Ohio, wrote. Reps. Scott Fitzgerald, R-Wis., Darrell Issa , R-Calif., and Michael Baumgartner, R-Wash., also signed the letter. The South Korean Embassy in Washington did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Thursday. Read more CNBC politics and policy coverage Khanna to introduce ‘Data Center Bill of Rights’ as fight over AI power plants heats up Kids Online Safety Act social media safety bill advances in Senate Trump admin refunds $100 billion in ‘liberation day’ tariffs The amendment, which was adopted by the Korean National Assembly as part of the country's Information and Communications Network Act in December, aims to "protect citizens from the harms of illegal and fabricated false information," according to a July statement from the chairman of the KMCC. Publishers who are found to have violated the law could face a penalty of up to 1 billion won, or more than $700,000. But, according to Jordan and his Judiciary colleagues, the law does not clearly define "false information" and could be used by the government to target "politically disfavored opinions." It's also faced opposition from journalists and civil liberties groups in South Korea. "No foreign government should have the power to pressure American companies into censoring constitutionally protected speech," Fitzgerald said in a statement. "South Korea's so-called 'false information' law is vague, expansive, and ripe for abuse. Congress will continue examining efforts by foreign governments to export censorship and undermine Americans' First Amendment freedoms online." The lawmakers also said the amendment "is specifically aimed at American companies," including YouTube , owned by Google's parent company, Alphabet . The implementation of the amendment and the House Judiciary letter come amid heightened economic tensions between the two key trading partners. South Korea was one of dozens of countries on which President Donald Trump imposed new tariffs last week over alleged forced labor practices. And the House Judiciary Committee in July released a report alleging discrimination by the South Korean government against Coupang , a U.S.-based online retailer that does the bulk of its business in Asia. The committee under Jordan's leadership has devoted significant time to the threat of foreign regulation on censoring free speech and stifling U.S. innovation. The committee has released multiple reports on the European Union's Digital Services Act, a comprehensive legal framework adopted in 2022 that sets strict rules for online content. That law has resulted in fresh scrutiny for U.S. companies like Google and Anthropic . According to the letter, the South Korean amendment is directly related to the Digital Services Act. "South Korea seems to be following in the EU's footsteps, adopting legislation modeled directly on the DSA," the lawmakers wrote. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by