Jim Cramer highlights 5 investing themes — and the stocks to buy for each Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Monday - Friday, 6:00 - 7:00 PM ET Mad Money Video Mad Money with Jim Cramer Full Episodes Cramer's Soundboard Mad Money Jim Cramer highlights 5 investing themes — and the stocks to buy for each Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 6:23 PM EDT Alexa LoMonaco @in/alexa-lomonaco/ WATCH LIVE Key Points CNBC’s Jim Cramer said earnings season reinforced five investing themes he thinks will produce the market's best buying opportunities. He highlighted stocks to buy for each theme, including Capital One, Ralph Lauren, Lam Research, CrowdStrike, Goldman Sachs and Eli Lilly. watch now VIDEO 2:38 02:38 There are no guarantees when it comes to thematic investing, says Jim Cramer Mad Money with Jim Cramer CNBC's Jim Cramer said Thursday earnings season has revealed investing themes he thinks will produce the market's best buying opportunities. "I love themes. They help you craft a portfolio of stocks with the wind at their backs, not in their faces — the kind of stocks that you can confidently buy more of when they go down," the " Mad Money " host said. For investors trying to decide what stocks to buy, Cramer said a good place to start is by focusing on broader market themes to narrow the field. He said the latest earnings season has reinforced five themes that he thinks can help investors identify attractive stocks. The first theme, Cramer said, is a surprisingly resilient consumer. Despite widespread concerns about inflation and slowing spending, he said earnings from banks, travel companies and retailers tell a different story . "We've been told over and over that the consumer's totally stretched," he said. "The companies are saying otherwise." Cramer said investors looking to capitalize on that theme should consider companies tied to consumer spending, including Capital One and American Express , as well as retailers Ralph Lauren and Williams-Sonoma , which he said continue to benefit from healthy discretionary demand. Cramer's Charitable Trust , the portfolio run by CNBC's Investing Club, owns shares of Capital One. Artificial intelligence infrastructure remains another powerful theme, but Cramer said investors should focus on companies supplying semiconductor equipment, rather than those scrambling to buy memory. "There is a shortage of every kind of memory in the universe of the data center," he said, highlighting Lam Research , KLA Corp and Applied Materials as his preferred way to capitalize on that demand. Cybersecurity also continues to stand out, Cramer said. Earlier this year, some investors questioned whether artificial intelligence would reduce the need for dedicated security software, but he said rising cyber threats have reinforced the importance of companies such as CrowdStrike and Palo Alto Networks . Cramer's Charitable Trust owns shares of CrowdStrike and Palo Alto. Cramer also expects a pickup in mergers and acquisitions to become a tailwind for Wall Street. He thinks companies are moving quickly to pursue deals while the regulatory environment remains favorable, creating opportunities for investment banks including Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley . Cramer's Charitable Trust owns shares of Goldman Sachs. Finally, he said healthcare has become an attractive destination for investors looking to diversify beyond technology without giving up exposure to innovation . Cramer highlighted Eli Lilly and Johnson & Johnson , which Cramer's Charitable Trust owns, as companies benefiting from that trend. While no investing theme is guaranteed to outperform, Cramer said identifying durable trends gives investors greater conviction to hold — and even add to — positions during inevitable pullbacks. "I just think this quarter's information is fresh enough that you can pick a travel stock, a semiconductor capital equipment maker, a cybersecurity company, something that works in the M&A world, or medtech and you'll greatly increase your chances of making money for the rest of 2026," he said. watch now VIDEO 11:06 11:06 Jim Cramer takes a closer look at underlying themes in the market Mad Money with Jim Cramer Jim Cramer's Guide to Investing Click here to read Jim Cramer's Guide to Investing at no cost to help you build long-term wealth and invest smarter Sign up now for the CNBC Investing Club to follow Jim Cramer's every move in the market. Disclaimer Questions for Cramer? Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBC Want to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad Money Twitter - Jim Cramer Twitter - Facebook - Instagram Questions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by