Fed Governor Cook says she's 'prepared to act' on rate hike to address inflation Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Federal Reserve Fed Governor Cook says she's 'prepared to act' on rate hike to address inflation Published Wed, Aug 5 2026 4:36 PM EDT Jeff Cox @jeff.cox.7528 @JeffCoxCNBCcom WATCH LIVE Key Points Fed Governor Lisa Cook said Wednesday that inflation is still too high and she is "prepared to act" on an interest rate hike. Cook voted with the majority last week to hold rates steady but said that may no longer be possible unless there are sure signs ahead that inflation is easing. Federal Reserve Governor Lisa Cook speaks at the Stanford Institute of Economic Policy Research in Palo Alto, California, U.S., May 27, 2026. Ann Saphir | Reuters Federal Reserve Governor Lisa Cook said Wednesday that she's ready to support an interest rate hike unless the inflation numbers improve. "Inflation is too high, and I consider the risks to the inflation side of the dual mandate higher than the risks to the employment side at this point," Cook said during a speech in Anchorage, Alaska. "As such, I am prepared to act by raising rates, if necessary." While acknowledging that the June data showed inflation easing thanks largely to a sharp slide in energy prices, the policymaker said there shouldn't be too much read into a single data point, particularly with the pace of price increases running well ahead of the Fed's 2% goal. Cook was part of a 9-3 majority that voted last week to keep the central bank's benchmark borrowing rate in a range between 3.5%-3.75%. She explained that her vote came from a desire to see how possibly waning impacts from tariffs, an energy supply shock due to the Iran war and pressures from the artificial intelligence buildout impact prices. "If I do not see signs of continued disinflation soon, I am prepared to act," Cook said. "With five years of above-target inflation, the risk grows that higher inflation may become entrenched in price- and wage-setting behavior, leading to persistence that would be much harder for us to attack. The longer inflation is above target, the more likely this scenario becomes." Other environments might allow the Fed to wait longer before acting, but she said, "We do not have that luxury in this one." Markets expect the central bank could act as soon as September but are pricing in higher odds for an October move, according to the CME Group's FedWatch. Earlier in the day, Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari , one of the three dissenting votes for the rate decision, told CNBC that he still believes higher rates are necessary. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by