Russian drone factory director seriously injured in car explosion - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Michigan Senate Primary World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War Michigan Senate Primary World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Crime Russian drone factory director seriously injured in car explosion Updated on: August 5, 2026 / 2:27 PM EDT / CBS/AP Add CBS News on Google The director of a factory supplying drones to the Russian military was badly wounded when his car exploded, news reports said Wednesday, marking the second attack in a week on Russian drone makers. The state Tass and RIA Novosti agencies said that Vladimir Tkachuk was hospitalized in grave condition following the explosion late Tuesday in Bolshoy Istok just outside Yekaterinburg, about 870 miles east of Moscow. The driver of the car was killed in the explosion, the Reuters news agency reported . Images published on Russian social media channels purported to show the burned out chassis of Tkachuk's Mercedes, surrounded by charred debris. Tass and RIA Novosti didn't immediately give details of the explosion or say who could be responsible. There was no immediate comment from the authorities. Tkachuk headed the Uraldronzavod factory that manufactures Upyr (Russian for "Ghoul") drones. Tkachuk, a small-scale entrepreneur, set up a team of engineers that developed the Upyr and organized its production near Yekaterinburg, Russia's fourth-largest city, and a key industrial hub in the Ural Mountains The Upyr, a cheap and simple first-person view drone, was hailed by troops for the protection it offers against jamming. Tkachuk, who founded the firm in 2023, has been pictured showcasing his drones to President Vladimir Putin. Russian President Vladimir Putin, center, speaks with Vladimir Tkachuk, front, the head of the Uraldronzavod, during his visit to the Special Technology Centre in St. Petersburg, Russia, Thursday, Sept. 19, 2024. Valeriy Sharifulin, Sputnik, Kremlin Pool Photo via AP, File Last week, the director and founder of a different Russian drone manufacturer was wounded in a shooting, in what prosecutors described as an "attempted murder." Ukraine made no immediate comment on this latest attack. The car explosion was reported one day after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy shared a video purporting to show a civilian being chased and attacked by a Russian drone in the city of Kherson. In a social media post on Tuesday, Zelenskyy said the world "must see" the footage that he said shows Russia's soldiers "take pleasure in killing and abusing civilians." Moscow blames Kyiv for targeted attacks Russian authorities have blamed Kyiv for a series of bombings and other attacks against senior military officials after Moscow sent troops into Ukraine in February 2022. The explosion followed Saturday's deadly bombing at an upscale Moscow restaurant, which the Russian Embassy in Rome blamed on Ukraine, describing it as an attempt to intimidate the Italian community in Russia. It said in a statement Monday that the attack on the Balzi Rossi restaurant killed five and injured 19. The Russian Foreign Ministry reposted the embassy statement without comment, and Russia's security agencies haven't named the suspected culprits. Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin has described the bombing as a "brutal terrorist act," but did not say who was responsible. Several Russian media outlets claimed the bombing targeted a Russian general who was celebrating his birthday at the restaurant. Some claimed that the general was Col.-Gen. Alexander Chaiko, who led the troops that made a botched attempt to storm the Ukrainian capital in 2022 and recently was appointed the chief of Russia's aerospace forces. The claims could not be independently verified. Agence France-Presse contributed to this report. War in Ukraine More Video shows drone attacking a street vendor in Ukraine Serviceman kills 3 civilians, 1 soldier in Russian-held Crimea Ukrainian drone strike on Russian warehouses in Moscow region kills 5 Funeral held for family "wiped off the map" in Russian strike Russian strikes on Kyiv kill 9, injure at least 27, officials say Go deeper with The Free Press Ukraine’s Top Drone Commander on What the Pentagon Keeps Missing Ukraine’s Drones Could Launch a Military Tech Revolution In: Ukraine Russia Drones © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report. Russian drone chases Ukrainian man in video Alarming video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian man before exploding 02:25 Alarming video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian man before exploding (02:25) Video shows drone attacking a street vendor in Ukraine Serviceman kills 3 civilians, 1 soldier in Russian-held Crimea Funeral held for family "wiped off the map" in Russian strike Ukraine’s Top Drone Commander on What the Pentagon Keeps Missing Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue