Shorts, strappy tops, sandals: Should you wear them in the office? - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Business New Tech Economy Artificial Intelligence Technology of Business Africa Business Paths to Success Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? Image source, Getty Images By Yasmin Rufo Business reporter Published 6 August 2026, 00:22 BST Updated 9 hours ago Yet another summer heatwave could be on the way to make your commute sweaty and your workplace stuffy. What to wear to work in the summer can be a surprisingly difficult decision. Shorts, strappy tops and sandals may keep you cool - but will they be judged too casual, revealing or unprofessional? There's a bare-legged backlash in Tokyo where officials encouraged men to swap suits for shorts at work , prompting complaints about hairy legs in the office. So what is acceptable to wear to work, how can you successfully style your summer wardrobe and can your boss tell you what you can and can't wear? What information do we collect from this quiz? Shorts Figure caption, Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? Conor, who works in media, has regularly worn shorts to the office during the recent hot weather. "Who gives a monkey's what you wear?" he says. "If you're able to do your job safely, professionally and appropriately, there's a lot to be said for letting people be comfortable." And many seem to agree - a recent poll by market research firm Ipsos found 62% of adults thought it was acceptable for men to wear shorts to work in hot weather, while 63% said the same for women. But we aren't talking short-shorts or denim hot pants fashion designer Amanda Wakeley points out: "If you're asking yourself whether they're too short, they probably are". She says shorts are "the trickiest item to get right in a professional environment" and recommends tailored, longer shorts paired with a crisp shirt or lightweight blazer for both men and women. Stylist Clare Chambers agrees shorts should sit around the kneecap for both men and women. For men, she recommends tailored chino-style shorts with an untucked T-shirt or shirt. Sandals Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Socks and sandals are a combo hard to pull off at the best of times, let alone in the office Wakeley describes flip-flops as one of the few definite "no" items in most offices. "They instantly signal leisure rather than professionalism and can make even the most polished outfit feel underdressed," she says. Chambers agrees, and says even during the hottest weather, woven flats are a better option because they are breathable while still covering the foot. Almost two-thirds of people questioned by Ipsos said they were unacceptable for men in the workplace, while 58% said the same for women. Sandals, however, are a slightly different matter as Wakeley says refined leather sandals can be entirely acceptable in many offices, provided they are clean and well maintained. The difference, she says, is whether they look like part of a considered outfit or something that would normally be worn around a swimming pool. She adds that while socks and sandals have become a viral fashion trend "it's important to consider whether a trend aligns with the image you want to communicate professionally". "This combination can read as highly casual and youthful, which may unintentionally detract from giving you a credible and authoritative presence." Strappy tops Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Public opinion is divided over bare shoulders at work Some 40% of adults considered tank tops or vest tops acceptable for women at work, compared with only 24% who said the same for men, according to Ipsos. Natasia, a teacher in London, says at a previous school she and other staff had been summoned "regularly in the summer months to tell us off about our outfits." She says she was also told to cover up her tattoos. "It should be OK to have your arms out at work especially when it's hot," she says. Wakeley says a well-cut camisole or strappy top can work when worn beneath a linen overshirt, lightweight jacket or tailored co-ord. On its own, however, it may feel too informal. Chambers says if you're wearing a strappy top "you must wear a strapless bra as it utterly kills an outfit when you can see bra straps". She explains that thicker straps are a safer option where the dress code is unclear and recommends satin camisoles as a more polished alternative to basic cotton vests. She adds that while bandeau tops are "such an on-trend look this summer, they are a no-go for work". "The constant need to keep fiddling to pull them up displays an uncomfortable and unconfident demeanour," she says. How to style summer clothes at work Image source, Getty Images Image caption, The answer to dressing for the heat isn't necessarily to wear less, but to choose clothes more carefully Wakeley and Chambers both say that you don't need to lose your personal style when dressing for the office and you can still inject plenty of personality while following a dress code. Here are their top tips on how to style summer clothes for the office. Can your employer tell you what to wear? Climate change is expected to bring more severe, frequent and longer-lasting heatwaves in UK summers in the coming years. Employers are allowed to set standards around clothing and appearance, particularly where there are legitimate reasons such as safety, branding or maintaining a professional image. But employment lawyer Sarah Tahamtani says dress codes should be "reasonable, proportionate and capable of justification". "During extreme heat, employers should consider whether existing requirements remain practical and whether greater flexibility can be introduced." They must also consider employees with disabilities, medical conditions or other vulnerabilities that may be worsened by high temperatures. An employee who believes a request is unreasonable or inconsistently applied should first raise the issue with a manager or HR and explain how the rule is affecting their comfort or ability to work safely. Related topics Fashion UK heatwaves Heatwaves More on this story No-gift policy for Taylor Swift, but how much should you give at a wedding? Published 3 July Beauty Pie founder on how she dropped out of university and built five beauty businesses Published 7 days ago I run the UK's biggest bank, here are five ways to manage your money Published 9 July The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens 1:03 Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show. 00:01:03, play video Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show 0:58 Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:58 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns. 00:00:58, play video Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:19 England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations. 00:01:19, play video England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya Top stories Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption Published 16 minutes ago Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases Published 8 hours ago Uefa says boycott may still go ahead as FA withdraws Infantino support Published 5 hours ago More to explore The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Steve the featherless parrot gets his colour back Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives Why aren't more women getting into padel? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 Arrests in Thetford as disorder continues for third night 2 Artificial Intelligence used to design brand new viruses 3 Met Police boss admits mistake over plagiarism row 4 Amanda Knox defends Fringe comedy show after claims it will 'trivialise violence' 5 South Korea space agency shares Moon images after SpaceX rocket debris crash 6 Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order 7 Former duke chased by alleged stalker, court hears 8 Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption 9 Boxer charged with killing aid worker in Athens after his wife gave police 'key' details 10 Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.