Adapting to global heating: which UK public services are struggling in hot weather? | Environment | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 3 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Farmers have warned that Britain could face food shortages as a result of this year’s droughts. Pictured: Waddenhall Farms in Kent. Photograph: Dan Kitwood/Getty Images View image in fullscreen Farmers have warned that Britain could face food shortages as a result of this year’s droughts. Pictured: Waddenhall Farms in Kent. Photograph: Dan Kitwood/Getty Images Environment Adapting to global heating: which UK public services are struggling in hot weather? As NHS told to prepare for extreme weather, strain also felt in other areas including transport and farming NHS must prepare for annual summer heat pressures, says Yvette Cooper Fiona Harvey Environment editor Wed 5 Aug 2026 16.00 EDT Last modified on Wed 5 Aug 2026 16.01 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google The NHS has been told it must become more resilient to increasingly frequent heatwaves supercharged by the climate crisis, as the UK government puts adaptation to extreme heat high on its agenda. But what other public services are already feeling the strain? Transport London bus drivers plan to go on strike later this month over their working conditions, as many have been experienced cab temperatures reaching close to 40C in the recent heat. Most London buses are fitted with air-flow cooling systems rather than air conditioning. Sadiq Khan, the mayor, has said drivers should not be working in unsafe hot conditions, but Arriva, the private operator, has said it will take time to update its fleet. Rail services have also been disrupted as the shrinkage of soil due to the dry weather has made embankments unsafe in the south of England because sleepers, part of the tracks, can move or drop out of position. Heat can also warp rails, leading operators to impose lower speed limits for safety. On the roads, the RAC has reported that breakdowns have soared by a fifth , often owing to engines overheating, or tyre blowouts on overheated road surfaces. View image in fullscreen A London bus driver takes a break in the shade on a day the weather exceeded 30C. Photograph: Dan Kitwood/Getty Images Farming and food This year’s harvest could be the worst on record, analysis published on Wednesday found, as the third year running of drought in England left farmers with dry soil and damaged crops. Cereals and oilseed yields could be down as much as 2.5m tonnes across the UK, worth £390m in lost revenue for arable farmers, according to the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit thinktank. Livestock farmers are also under pressure: grass growth has halved, forcing some to use feed they had hoped to save for winter. This followed an unusually wet start to the year but most farms are not in a position to store water adequately on their farms. The Country Land and Business Association (CLA), representing landowners, is calling for planning reforms to make small reservoirs on farms easier, while some regenerative farming practices can also help to store more water on land. If dry conditions persist into autumn, farmers will have further problems preparing for next year . Tom Lancaster, the food and farming analyst at the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit (ECIU) thinktank, said: “At the start of spring, farmers were hopeful of a better year, but the dry April and July and record-breaking heat have left farmers facing down the barrel of a third awful harvest in a row. “Farming is now the sector most exposed to climate change and the risks and damage that it brings. From the wettest winter on record in 2024, to the hottest summer in 2025 and now unprecedented heat and drought this year, we are in danger of UK farming entering a climate doom loop, as repeated impacts undermine the capacity of farmers to drill next year’s crop.” As farmers have struggled, the price of fresh food has risen . The wholesale price of tomatoes is up by more than 60%, iceberg lettuce by 90% and potatoes by more than 40%. The outlook abroad is gloomy too, with a super El Niño increasingly possible, so relying on imports to make up the shortfall may bring more problems with it. Working conditions The UK does not have a maximum legal temperature for workers, and employees have struggled, particularly those working in poorly repaired public buildings. Court cases have been disrupted, with one judge in Bristol telling a jury in July they had to listen to a defendant through a virtual link because the dock was unusable in the heat. Some public libraries that are already equipped with air conditioning are operating as “cool spaces” for communities. Maps can be found online showing where they are available . skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Weekly Sign up to Down to Earth The planet's most important stories. Get all the week's environment news - the good, the bad and the essential Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion View image in fullscreen A construction worker in the sun during a heatwave this summer. Photograph: Toby Shepheard/AFP/Getty Images Paul Nowak, secretary general of the TUC, told the Guardian: “After a summer of heatwaves, it is clear we need to adapt to the climate crisis.” Employers need to keep staff working indoors and outdoors safe, with regular breaks or flexible working, proper equipment and access to water, he said, but legislation was also needed. “As heatwaves become our new normal, we need to find ways to work and live with hot weather,” he said. “That means new laws on maximum working temperatures, adapting buildings and workplaces to keep them cool, and ambitious climate action to tackle the problem at its root.” Schools Pupils are off at the moment, escaping the stuffy classrooms that reduced some to tears in the summer term , but some of the inequalities in the UK’s education system continue: the Guardian revealed that private schools were continuing to water their lawns , despite hosepipe bans covering close to half of England and some of Wales. The heat should be less severe when most return in September, but the Climate Change Committee has called for all schools to have air conditioning by 2050 , and for a rethink of the traditional school year. It suggested that having exams in June may no longer be the most sensible way of arranging the academic timetable, given evidence that heat can affect pupils’ test performance. Explore more on these topics Environment Farming Extreme heat Climate crisis news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story NHS must prepare for annual summer heat pressures, says Yvette Cooper 2h ago July was driest month in southern England since records began 2d ago Relentless UK heatwaves turn ‘green and pleasant land’ brown 3d ago More disruption to rail services in England as heatwave shrinks soil 28 Jul 2026 Every new UK home should have air conditioning, say Liberal Democrats 26 Jul 2026 Evacuated villagers in Cairngorms allowed home after wildfire threat lifts 25 Jul 2026 UK in ‘firewave’ as extreme heat provides ideal conditions for wildfires, experts warn 13 Jul 2026 May and June heatwaves killed about 2,700 people in England and Wales, data suggests 13 Jul 2026 Two men die after going into sea to rescue children at County Durham beach 12 Jul 2026 ‘Like a sauna’: London tube travellers swelter in temperatures higher than legal limit for cattle 11 Jul 2026 Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)