Senate appears ready to advance Blanche for AG after Cornyn strikes deal Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Politics & Policy Senate appears ready to advance Todd Blanche for attorney general after Cornyn strikes deal Published Mon, Aug 3 2026 8:52 AM EDT Updated Mon, Aug 3 2026 2:35 PM EDT Garrett Downs @in/garrettmdowns/ @_garrettdowns Karen James Sloan @Kj_Sloan Kevin Breuninger @KevinWilliamB WATCH LIVE Key Points The Senate appears ready to advance the nomination of Todd Blanche to be the next attorney general. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, a key holdout on Blanche, struck a deal to formally end the controversial "anti-weaponization fund" and his blockade of President Donald Trump's pick and former personal defense lawyer with it. Documents posted by Blanche showed he had formally rescinded the order that created the fund in May, while clarifying aspects of the May settlement of Trump's $10 billion lawsuit against the Internal Revenue Service that created the fund. Trump's personal attorneys are still appealing a judge's order that said his settlement in the IRS lawsuit is legally baseless. Acting Attorney General Todd Blanche is seen before a Senate Judiciary Committee confirmation hearing for his nomination to be Attorney General, at the Dirksen Senate Office Building in Washington, DC on July 15, 2026. Nathan Posner | Anadolu | Getty Images The Senate appears ready to advance the nomination of Todd Blanche to be the next attorney general after Sen. John Cornyn struck a deal to formally end the " anti-weaponization fund " to compensate President Donald Trump 's political allies. Sen Thom Tillis , the other Republican holdout to confirm Blanche in the Senate Judiciary Committee, said he is also satisfied with the deal. A spokeswoman for Cornyn, R-Texas, confirmed the deal Monday in a statement to CNBC. "Sen. Cornyn has reached an agreement with the Department of Justice, which will be issuing a formal order permanently terminating the anti-weaponization fund and making clear in a binding written document that the scope of the audit settlement is limited to only the plaintiffs, including the President, and the IRS," the spokesperson, Natalie Yezbick, said. Blanche, who is the acting attorney general, posted a set of documents overnight that he said were formally ending the fund that had ground his nomination to a halt. Senators on the Judiciary Committee, including Cornyn and Tillis, R-N.C., had warned the fund could result in payouts to violent rioters who stormed the Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021, and vowed to block Blanche until it was dead. Trump on Monday said he hasn't seen the agreement and "didn't look at it." "I understand there's been a sign off," he told reporters in the Oval Office after defending the fund. "I don't know what they agreed." The Senate Judiciary Committee is set to vote on Blanche's nomination Tuesday after delaying a previously planned vote due to concerns about the fund. Read more CNBC politics and policy coverage Canada unveils retaliatory tariffs on about $20B of U.S. goods Trump targets Iran's trade lifelines — here are the countries most exposed Mark Walter's TWG Global hires Goldman vet Markowitz as top lawyer amid probe Trump oil and gas stocks gained up to $15.5 million, Democrats say Trump admin unveils anti-Iran global sanctions plan, signals China not exempt Cornyn and Tillis are key swing votes on the committee, which consists of 12 Republicans and 10 Democrats. If either of them were to defect on Blanche and all Democrats vote no, the panel would deadlock, and Blanche would be blocked from moving forward. After the committee vote, Blanche would still need to be approved by the full Senate with at least 50 votes. Republicans hold a 53-47 majority in the chamber, which has been winnowed to 52 by the extended absence of Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., who hasn't returned to the Senate since a fall in June. The documents Blanche posted late Sunday showed Blanche had formally rescinded the order that created the fund in May, while clarifying aspects of the May settlement of Trump's $10 billion lawsuit against the Internal Revenue Service that created the fund. The DOJ also clarified aspects of that deal, which created broad immunity from tax audits for the president and members of his family. The documents say the settlement applies "only retroactively," meaning it would not protect the president and his family indefinitely from audit. The DOJ also said the order would affect "named parties" in Trump's lawsuit against the IRS, including on release of any claims. Despite Blanche's written assurance that the fund is dead, Trump's attorneys continue to fight in court against a judicial order that blasted the settlement deal as legally baseless. In a court filing Friday, Trump said he is appealing the July 13 order from federal Judge Kathleen Williams, which imposed nonmonetary sanctions over the "bad faith" lawsuit that led to the settlement. The sanctions include referring one of the president's lawyers to the Florida Bar for possible disciplinary action. Later that night, Trump's attorneys asked Williams to pause that court order pending their appeal, arguing Williams' ruling "invokes serious concerns regarding fundamental tenets of justice and cannot stand." The attorneys said that if Williams does not rule on their pause request by Wednesday, they will seek relief from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by