Teenager dressed as clown detained in Illinois homicide case IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Politics U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline U.S. news Teenager dressed as clown detained in Illinois homicide case Doorbell footage showed a man with part of his face covered looking into the camera and saying, “I have a gift for you.” Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 5, 2026, 2:03 PM EDT / Updated Aug. 5, 2026, 2:55 PM EDT By Doha Madani A 15-year-old dressed as a clown was taken into custody Monday night in connection with a homicide investigation in East St. Louis, according to Illinois State Police. The East St. Louis Police Department received a report of a body in a roadway just after 10 p.m. on Monday and identified the 15-year-old as a suspect after officers arrived at the scene. The teenager, who has not been identified, was detained, though remains unclear whether he has been charged. The victim was identified as John Wesley Allen Sr., 78, according to the St. Clair County Coroner’s Office. Allen died of multiple stab wounds, the coroner said. State police acknowledged that “video footage of the suspect dressed in a clown costume has been circulating” and said they are working to obtain all video related to the case. Doorbell camera footage obtained by NBC affiliate KSDK showed a man with part of his face covered looking into the camera and saying, “I have a gift for you.” Neighbors told the outlet they saw the teenager going door-to-door with a large knife on Monday night. Corrine Spry was sitting on her back porch with her family when she saw him twirling the knife. She watched him roam the area for about 45 minutes before police arrived. “He was up to no good,” Spry said. “We’re pretty positive he circled back around in these woods because you could hear the sticks breaking.” Spry said the suspect could have targeted any neighborhood residents — a thought that still unsettles her, given how easily the situation could have escalated. Lee Palmer said the suspect approached his mother’s home, where she lives alone, but that she didn’t open the door. Palmer said he hopes the suspect gets help. “He was not in the right state of mind to walk on somebody’s porch like that,” Palmer said. “It’s just unimaginable.” Share Add NBC News to Google Doha Madani I am a senior breaking news reporter for NBC News Digital, covering a range of news-of-the-day topics. My job is to report in a timely manner on crime, mass shootings, war coverage, domestic and international affairs, pop culture and more. Joe Kottke contributed . About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC