FAA certifies Boeing 737 MAX 7 after years of delays - The Points Guy Skip to content Menu Go to Home Page Subscribe Advertiser disclosure Search The Points Guy Advertiser disclosure ADVERTISEMENT News FAA certifies smallest Boeing 737 MAX after years of delays David Slotnick David Slotnick Contributing aviation editor David Slotnick is TPG's contributing aviation editor. He covers the ins and outs of the airline industry. Aug. 03, 2026 • 3 min read FAA certifies smallest Boeing 737 MAX after years of delays Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Copy URL Email The cards we feature here are from partners who compensate us when you are approved through our site, and this may impact how or where these products appear. We don’t cover all available credit cards, but our analysis, reviews, and opinions are entirely from our editorial team. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. Please view our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information. The Federal Aviation Administration granted certification to Boeing's smallest passenger jet on Monday, a major milestone for the planemaker that comes after more than four years of delays. The 737 MAX 7 is the shortest variant of Boeing's workhorse narrow-body jet, capable of carrying between 135 and 160 passengers in a normal commercial configuration. (It can seat up to 172 people in a high-density setting.) However, it has the longest range in the 737 MAX family: up to 4,300 miles. Coupled with a relatively low per-seat operating cost thanks to the plane's efficient engines, this can allow airlines to use the jet on longer, "thinner" routes that lack sufficient demand to support a larger wide-body plane. Dallas-based carrier Southwest Airlines is slated to be the launch customer for the MAX 7. In a statement, Boeing said that the planemaker and airline are "preparing for delivery of the first airplane." DAVID SLOTNICK/THE POINTS GUY A spokesperson for Southwest said the airline plans to begin flying passengers on the MAX 7 three to six months after delivery of the first jet, and that its current schedule — published through March 2027 — does not include any routes or frequencies using the plane, although that can always be amended. Still, the airline had not factored the MAX 7 into any of its plans for 2026. "Southwest Airlines is pleased with the FAA's certification of the Boeing 737-7 aircraft and we look forward to the plane entering service in the coming months," Southwest said in a statement to TPG. "Certification is an important step toward continuing to modernize our all-Boeing 737 fleet with upgraded interiors and more fuel-efficient aircraft to fit our Customers' preferences and demand patterns." Daily Newsletter Reward your inbox with the TPG Daily newsletter Join over 700,000 readers for breaking news, in-depth guides and exclusive deals from TPG’s experts Email address Sign up Submitting... By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy . You may unsubscribe at any time. Airlines had initially expected the MAX 7, as well as the MAX 10 (the largest version in the narrow-body family ), to become available shortly after the MAX 8 and MAX 9. However, after those mid-sized variants were grounded following two crashes before the coronavirus pandemic, certification of the MAX 7 and 10 was delayed. While the planes appeared to be on track for certification by the end of 2022, new requirements for all newly certified jets caused the delays to continue. The FAA described the delays in a statement as being linked to "complex technical issues" and a review of the airplane's design and safety testing. A Boeing 737 MAX 10 on display at Boeing's factory near Seattle in 2022. DAVID SLOTNICK/THE POINTS GUY "Before granting approval, the FAA required the MAX 7 to incorporate key improvements, including updates to the flight-control software, flightcrew alerting system, and a redesigned engine anti-ice system," the FAA said. Certification of the MAX 10 is widely expected in the coming weeks or months, since the jet largely features the same adjustments as the MAX 7. Boeing has already built around 30 MAX 7s and nine MAX 10s, Reuters noted. Related reading: Check your flights: Cancellations grow following 737 MAX 9 grounding Best airline credit cards 11 safety features in aircraft cabins that you may not know exist Flight canceled or delayed? Here's what to do next You are entitled to a refund for your canceled flight — even if the airline says you aren't Featured image by DAVID SLOTNICK/THE POINTS GUY Editorial disclaimer: Opinions expressed here are the author’s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airline or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities. Facebook Instagram YouTube Twitter TikTok Credit card reviews Capital One Venture Rewards Chase Sapphire Reserve American Express Platinum American Express Gold Capital One Venture X Business Chase Ink Business Preferred American Express Business Platinum Limited-time welcome offers Points + miles Transfer partners guide Current transfer bonuses Points + miles travel deals Priority Pass lounge access Best frequent flyer programs Best hotel loyalty programs Travel guides Google Flights Google Explore Best times to book travel Best all-inclusive resorts Best all-inclusive family resorts Best Hyatt hotels Airport lounge etiquette Free PreCheck and Global Entry Travel rewards glossary Destinations Hawaii Japan New York Paris Tulum Cancun Disney Meet TPG About us Philanthropy Careers Contact us Site map Newsletters Join our Creator Network Partner with us Legal Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Privacy policy Terms of use Cookie settings Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy Model Card Get the latest travel tips, news and deals from TPG experts every day Enter your email Subscribe Submitting... By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy . You may unsubscribe at any time. Our commitment to transparency The Points Guy believes that credit cards can transform lives, helping you leverage everyday spending for cash back or travel experiences that might otherwise be out of reach. We publish editorial content and card reviews to help you find a great card to turn your goals into reality. We may earn compensation when a customer clicks on a link, when an application is approved, or when an account is opened with our partners. This may impact how or where products appear. While we don’t cover all available credit cards, our editorial team creates and maintains our analysis of cards. Editorial content is not influenced by nor subject to review by any credit card company, bank or partner prior to or after publication. Read our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information. Copyright © 2026 The Points Guy, LLC. All rights reserved. A Red Ventures company.