Pakistan restricts international media reporting - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Asia China India Pakistan restricts international media reporting Image source, EPA Image caption, Recent tensions in Kashmir have led to demonstrations, and police crackdowns, like this one in Lahore By Caroline Davies Pakistan correspondent , Reporting from Islamabad Published 9 hours ago Pakistani authorities have imposed new restrictions on international media reporting in the country in a move that has drawn sharp criticism from journalist organisations. Anyone working for foreign media, including Pakistani nationals, must now seek permission to report from anywhere except the cities of Islamabad, Karachi and Lahore. The restrictions would leave on-the-ground reporting by foreign media at the discretion and timing of the authorities across most of Pakistan, which currently ranks 153 out of 180 on the World Press Freedom Index. "These guidelines are tantamount to choking international media in an increasingly shrinking space," said political commentator Mustafa Nawaz Khokhar. Limitations on the media are not new , but local media are often subject to more pressure than international outlets. "The public looks at the international media for independent reporting," Khokhar says. "Placing restrictions simply creates more room for disinformation and spread of fake news." Image source, EPA Image caption, The government has been critical of coverage of deadly protests in Pakistan-administered Kashmir - foreign media will need to seek permission to travel there Pakistan's government said the guidelines, issued on Sunday, are not to restrict media but to "provide an administrative mechanism" to verify media, facilitate access and co-ordinate reporting requirements. The new rules - called the Foreign Media Facilitation Guidelines, 2026 - do not set out how long gaining permission, known as a No Objection Certificate or NOC, can take. Foreign journalists already require NOCs and can wait months for permissions or never receive an answer - severely curtailing their ability to report breaking news stories from the ground in the country of 240 million people. International media outlets often therefore rely on Pakistani nationals, who can travel more easily to – or are permanently based in – cities like Peshawar or Quetta, to verify information. Under these new guidelines, any contributor, including freelancers, living outside the three specified cities would require NOC permissions to cover a story. "These are ridiculous restrictions and are totally unacceptable," said Zaffar Abbas, editor of Dawn newspaper. "I have worked as a journalist in this country for over 40 years and have reported during the times of two military rulers and a number of autocratic civilian rules, but have never seen the imposition of such restrictions. "To ask journalists to get an NOC for travelling outside the three major cities not just undermines freedom of movement but also freedom of the press." The government says this is not a blanket restriction on the movement of individuals. The guidelines also specify that journalists can lose their accreditation for "acts against ideology, sovereignty, security or public order of Pakistan". Khokhar describes this as "vague" and raises questions about how it might be interpreted. But the government says any system of accreditation must retain the ability to act including when "the holder is involved in conduct affecting national security or public order". There is no statutory framework to support the guidelines, according to Salhuddin Ahmed, a Supreme Court lawyer. "These 'guidelines' are merely an executive order and lack any legal backing from statute," Ahmed says. "They refer to the rules of business; those rules are only meant to regulate the internal functioning of government, not create legal obligations on others. "Quite clearly, these guidelines are a hastily and ill-thought-out attempt to further curb independent reporting in Pakistan." According to the government, the guidelines are used under rules of business and that as the Information Ministry's External Publicity wing are responsible for foreign media, the guidelines regulate the ministry's administrative relationship with foreign media. A group of international journalists and the president of Pakistan's Federal Union of Journalists are trying to arrange a meeting with the information minister to raise their concerns. Inside city gripped by deadly protests in Pakistan-administered Kashmir Published 2 days ago 'My only son was shot standing up for justice' - inside city gripped by deadly protests in Pakistan-administered Kashmir Published 2 days ago Why have so many people died in the run-up to an election in Pakistan-administered Kashmir? Published 24 July The authorities seem particularly concerned about reporting from certain locations. Foreign media organisations received a WhatsApp message on Monday evening from the External Publicity wing, saying that anyone in Pakistan-administered Kashmir (PAK) must "return back IMMEDIATELY" and apply for an NOC. The area has seen two months of violent clashes between protesters and security officials, with dozens killed. Local elections are under way, which protesters are boycotting. Internet access restrictions have made it hard to verify information. This ministry's message was sent after several international news outlets, including the BBC, published reports from inside PAK. Al Jazeera's website was inaccessible inside Pakistan earlier this week after their correspondent's report from the regional capital was deemed "yellow journalism" (a term for sensationalised reporting) by the Pakistan ministry of information. A ban on the news site has not been publicly announced. Kashmir is one of the most disputed and militarised areas in the world, with India and Pakistan both claiming the whole territory, but only controlling parts of it. Coverage of unrest in PAK is politically sensitive. Two Pakistani journalists told the BBC that they had been warned to stay away from the topic by their editors. Related topics Pakistan Press freedom Kashmir More on this story Imran Khan not the only one silenced as Pakistan military stifles dissent Published 29 January The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia 0:50 Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea. 00:00:50, play video Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea 1:01 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller. 00:01:01, play video 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:49 Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales. 00:00:49, play video Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales 0:59 The city closing down streets so children can play. 00:00:59, play video The city closing down streets so children can play 1:23 The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII. 00:01:23, play video The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII 1:30 What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK. 00:01:30, play video What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK 0:37 Crispy butter beans with whipped feta. 00:00:37, play video Crispy butter beans with whipped feta 0:57 Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites. 00:00:57, play video Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport 1:01 What are the 'luteal uglies'? 00:01:01, play video What are the 'luteal uglies'? Top stories Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate Published 47 minutes ago Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London Published 4 hours ago University of Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns Published 1 hour ago More to explore The cost of being single – and how friends are teaming up to beat it From flip flops to fisherman's sandals: How to look after your feet this summer 'My grandmother subjected my baby to female genital mutilation behind my back' 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' Kate Nash on Irish history, heritage and covering Sinéad O'Connor There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media 'This year has been the worst for my heat anxiety' Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Love shouldn't feel like fear How hydrated do you really need to be? Melvin Odoom on the MiniDiscs he can't throw away The origin story of the first Comic Con Most read 1 University of Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 2 Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London 3 Family 'devastated' by death of girl, 9, as man charged with murder 4 El-Sayed's victory sends tremors through Democratic Party 5 See the Sun like never before with most detailed images yet 6 Student loan repayment rates an 'unsustainable burden', chancellor told 7 Apology after carer fed dog food to elderly woman by mistake 8 Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate 9 Drone carrying explosives found at German airport, police say 10 Anthropic AI used fake profiles to target people in hack then hid the evidence BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.