Andy Burnham invites swimmer Archie Goodburn to cancer funding meeting - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Commonwealth Games Medal Table & Results England Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Burnham invites swimmer Goodburn to meeting after cancer funding plea Figure caption, Archie Goodburn pleads for more funding for rare cancer research By George O'Neill BBC Sport Scotland Published 4 August 2026, 10:43 BST Updated 5 hours ago Prime Minister Andy Burnham has responded to Archie Goodburn's impassioned plea for more money and resources to be put into brain cancer research by inviting the Scottish swimmer to a personal meeting. Tears rolling down his face, the 25-year-old had implored "give us a chance to fight for our lives" while speaking about the subject on BBC Breakfast. Replying to the video on TikTok, Burnham said: "Archie, thank you for this. I know how hard it must have been. "What you're doing for other people while you're going through all this yourself shows the best of us. "I'd really like to meet you and hear from you directly and I've asked my team to get in touch." Goodburn was diagnosed with inoperable brain tumours just over two years ago and has since passionately advocated for an increased focus on the disease. "One of my dreams is that we see a future where brain cancer isn't the biggest killer of patients under 40," he said during the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow. And, making a direct appeal to Downing Street to help ease the "unbearable" suffering of brain cancer patients and their families, he added: "Andy Burnham, if you believe and want to make a change and a difference to the future of our country and our young population, please listen to us. "Please establish a national brain cancer lead and give us a chance to fight for our lives because the things that patients are going through out there are unbelievable and so unjust. "There are clinical trials around the world, in the US, in Australia, in China, that could change lives. We are not seeing them in the UK and it is unfair and unjust. "Please invest and make the difference. I'm on my knees begging for - not just my own life - but for those of my best friends and those that are affected and the families around the country. "This has to change. It's been going for too long and the suffering is unbearable." 'Medal dream didn't come true but my other dream is fighting brain cancer' Published 27 July The Commonwealth Games swimmer who might not see 40 Published 25 June 2025 The Rare Cancers Bill - led by Scott Arthur MP - became law earlier this year. It aims to incentivise research and investment into the treatment of rare types of cancer, but Goodburn says it does not go far enough. "It's a step in the right direction but it's not going to make the changes that we need," he said. "I'm extremely grateful for Dr Scott Arthur and the work he's done there. "The rare cancers bill covers 14 different types of rare cancers. Brain cancer is one of these in terms of incidents of diagnosis, but it's not the same in terms of the number of deaths it causes. "Yes it's rare, but it's extremely deadly. This frustrates me immensely. "The rare cancers bill establishes two new positions: a clinical lead and a research lead. These two roles are part-time across 14 different types of cancers and they accumulate to 36 days a year. "There's two roles to cover 14 different types of cancer and change the landscape of treatment. "I do not see how 36 days a year is going to make that change for 14 different types of cancers, let alone the most deadly type of cancer." 'There's only really one way to go and that's to go and fight' Figure caption, 'My dream is a future for brain cancer patients' The Commonwealth Games in Glasgow were a huge driving force for Goodburn, amid the emotional turmoil of the past two years, and he completed his goal of reaching the 50m breaststroke final. He missed out on the medal he craved, but even after that disappointment he was able to eloquently and passionately advocate for increased brain cancer research. Few athletes - if any - at the Games got a bigger ovation than Goodburn. "It was an honour to compete in front of such a fantastic and supportive home crowd," he said, reflecting on the Games and his post-race interviews. "To see the support off the back of those interviews has been really, really touching and inspiring. "In that moment I was speaking about what felt important to me and the crowd were very supportive of my journey, and it only felt right to address that when I got out the pool. "What I do in the pool is only possible because of the medical advances that have been made and the campaign that's been done by the whole community. It was really a chance to give back and make sure that momentum keeps going." And he insists he will continue to try to make a difference for other patients. "I partly feel like why we don't hear so much about brain cancer and why the awareness is so poor is because patients unfortunately die so quickly," he said. "I have this prognosis which is slightly longer and it's given me this time to advocate - it's two years since I was diagnosed. "I think when you're really backed up against a wall like that there's only really one way to go and that's to go and fight." Related topics Commonwealth Games Shorts Previous Next 1:29 Could Pollock be paid £1m a season? It's complicated... 00:01:29, play video Could Pollock be paid £1m a season? It's complicated... 0:27 Maresca very similar to Pep - Foden. 00:00:27, play video Maresca very similar to Pep - Foden 0:41 Wenger speaks out about Infantino's World Cup plan. 00:00:41, play video Wenger speaks out about Infantino's World Cup plan 0:59 Why does a Swedish club want to pay £1m for a National League player? 00:00:59, play video Why does a Swedish club want to pay £1m for a National League player? 1:30 Goodburn's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Goodburn's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:33 Alonso on Mudryk's first day back with Chelsea squad. 00:00:33, play video Alonso on Mudryk's first day back with Chelsea squad 0:58 Aston Villa finally register signing after court battle. 00:00:58, play video Aston Villa finally register signing after court battle 0:59 Mudryk is back, but what actually happened? 00:00:59, play video Mudryk is back, but what actually happened? 0:52 Legends and fans in Milan mourn Baresi. 00:00:52, play video Legends and fans in Milan mourn Baresi Top stories Infantino calls executive meeting as criticism mounts Published 2 hours ago Turkish club Trabzonspor begin talks to sign Salah Published 34 minutes ago Drinking culture embedded in cricket - Stokes Published 9 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC Detective Lindo and the team are back in a brand new series Professor David Keith answers questions on climate engineering The chilling story of how a debt-ridden undertaker betrayed grieving families The return of the thrilling, award-winning drama about the CIA Elsewhere in Scottish sport How Scotland reached the World Cup - told by those who made it happen Scotland men's internationals to be shown live on BBC How Team GB is leading the way in curling's arms race How McTominay became a Napoli icon after Man Utd exit Why is it so special to be part of Team Scotland? Elsewhere in Sport Why £1m-a-season deal will be hard for Pollock and Hearn to find A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season Runs and records galore as Sunrisers beat Spirit in men's Hundred. Video Runs and records galore as Sunrisers beat Spirit in men's Hundred Why we are still waiting for the 'Newey effect' - F1 Q&A Meet the £1m-rated non-league star Abdulmalik The summer that changed Welsh football The ex-sandwich maker who cycles to Champions League games Inside Liverpool's summer so far - should fans be worried? How Mumbai Indians takeover has affected MI London & Surrey From European hopes to relegation form - will Moyes reignite Everton? 'Nothing is strange' - how clubs prepare for the transfer window 'No guarantees' - joyful Glasgow cannot banish all Commonwealth doubts Finucane 'screaming inside' after record-breaking Games Dog walk and expletive text - key findings in Vondrousova anti-doping case Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.