Israel charges West Bank settler over death of renowned Palestinian activist | West Bank | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness A demonstrator holds a photo of Awdah Hathaleen during an August 2025 protest in Tel Aviv over his death. Photograph: Tamir Kalifa/Getty Images View image in fullscreen A demonstrator holds a photo of Awdah Hathaleen during an August 2025 protest in Tel Aviv over his death. Photograph: Tamir Kalifa/Getty Images West Bank Israel charges West Bank settler over death of renowned Palestinian activist Yinon Levi faces trial for reckless manslaughter related to the 2025 killing of Awdah Hathaleen Reuters in Jerusalem Thu 6 Aug 2026 10.38 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 15.42 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Israeli prosecutors have charged a Jewish settler over the killing of a Palestinian community leader in the occupied West Bank last year – the ⁠first such indictment in nearly three years. In papers filed by the state attorney’s office, Yinon Levi is charged with reckless manslaughter in the death of Awdah Hathaleen, a prominent ⁠activist who was involved in the 2025 Oscar-winning documentary No Other Land. The charges against Levi also include armed trespassing and malicious property damage during a July 2025 incident in which settlers operated ⁠a large excavator in the Palestinian village of Umm al-Khair, setting off a confrontation with residents. Hathaleen filmed the moment ​he was shot during the confrontation. Footage released by ‌the Israeli rights group B’Tselem shows ‌Levi draw a weapon and fire in Hathaleen’s direction. Hathaleen is then heard moaning as he falls to ‌the ground. 0:53 Palestinian activist recorded moment he was killed by settler in West Bank – video Levi, whom the UK and EU have placed under sanctions over violence against Palestinians, has previously denied firing the shot that killed Hathaleen. Reuters was not able to reach his lawyer for comment. Thursday’s indictment is the first since the 7 October 2023 Hamas attacks that set off Israel’s war in Gaza and led to a sharp rise in settler violence against Palestinians in the occupied West Bank, B’Tselem said. Israeli soldiers and settlers have since killed at least 1,100 Palestinians in the West Bank, among them at least 240 children, according to UN data. My sweet friend Awdah Hathaleen was murdered by a West Bank settler. May his memory be a revolution | Emily Glick Read more “The decision to indict Yinon Levi is the ​exception that proves the rule. The impunity Israel grants to soldiers and settlers who harm Palestinians is not a failure of the system. It is a central component of a policy designed to allow the violence to continue and escalate,” B’Tselem said. Israel’s military says it investigates instances of wrongdoing by its soldiers and that it and the Israeli police take steps ⁠to crack down on settler violence. Hundreds of thousands of Israelis have settled among millions ​of Palestinians in land that Israel ​captured in a 1967 war, and which ​Palestinians seek as the core of an independent future state. UN bodies, Palestinians and most countries ​view the settlements as illegal ‌under international conventions ​and a major obstacle to ​peace. Israel disputes that view, saying a Jewish presence has existed in the West Bank for thousands of years. Eighteen Palestinians have been killed in incidents linked to settler attacks so far this year, compared with 17 in the whole of 2025, according to UN figures. Explore more on these topics West Bank Palestine Israel Middle East and north Africa news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story How children in West Bank are being killed by Israel ‘without accountability’ 29 Jun 2026 Israeli police kill two young Palestinian boys and their parents in West Bank 15 Mar 2026 Israelis kill three in West Bank village as violence surges across occupied Palestine 8 Mar 2026 Senators demand investigation after ninth American killed by Israeli settlers or soldiers in West Bank 5 Mar 2026 Brother of No Other Land co-director injured as Israeli settlers again attack family home 17 Feb 2026 ‘A step in the wrong direction’: Israel’s West Bank plans prompt global backlash 11 Feb 2026 Palestine’s ambassador to UK hails embassy as ‘proof our identity cannot be denied’ 5 Jan 2026 Press Israel to release Marwan Barghouti, former world leaders urge Trump 29 Oct 2025 Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)