Stevens to El-Sayed: ‘Thank you for clarifying that you didn’t call me an ogre’ - POLITICO Skip to Main Content Toggle menu More from Politico Europe Pro E&E News AgencyIQ Press Escape to close the menu. search for any story WASHINGTON & POLITICS WASHINGTON & POLITICS 6 items 1st item Congress 2nd item White House 3rd item Supreme Court and Legal Issues 4th item Magazine 5th item 2026 Elections 6th item Latest on POLITICO STATE POLITICS & POLICY STATE POLITICS & POLICY 4 items 1st item California 2nd item Florida 3rd item New Jersey 4th item New York GLOBAL POLITICS & POLICY GLOBAL POLITICS & POLICY 6 items 1st item Brussels 2nd item Canada 3rd item United Kingdom 4th item France 5th item Germany 6th item Australia POLICY NEWS POLICY NEWS 11 items 1st item Food and Agriculture 2nd item Cybersecurity 3rd item Defense 4th item Education 5th item Energy and Climate 6th item Tax, Finance and the Economy 7th item Health Care 8th item Labor 9th item Tech 10th item Trade 11th item Transportation NEWSLETTERS NEWSLETTERS 6 items 1st item Playbook 2nd item West Wing Playbook 3rd item Inside Congress 4th item POLITICO Forecast 5th item POLITICO Magazine 6th item All Newsletters COLUMNISTS COLUMNISTS 7 items 1st item Alex Burns 2nd item Victoria Guida 3rd item John Harris 4th item Debra Kahn 5th item Jonathan Martin 6th item Nahal Toosi 7th item All Columnists SERIES & MORE SERIES & MORE 7 items 1st item Inside Congress Live 2nd item Breaking News Alerts 3rd item Podcasts 4th item Video 5th item Matt Wuerker Cartoons 6th item Cartoon Carousel 7th item The POLITICO Poll POLITICO Live POLITICO Live 1 item 1st item Events Follow us X Instagram Facebook LinkedIn My Account Log In Stevens to El-Sayed: ‘Thank you for clarifying that you didn’t call me an ogre’ The two faced off in the final Michigan Democratic primary debate hours after POLITICO published a leaked recording of El-Sayed. Democratic U.S. Senate candidate Abdul El-Sayed speaks during a campaign event at the Loving Touch on July 25, 2026, in Ferndale, Michigan. | Emily Elconin/Getty Images By Aaron Pellish 07/27/2026 09:09 PM EDT Share Copy link X Facebook Email Reddit WhatsApp LinkedIn Michigan Democratic Senate candidates Rep. Haley Stevens and Abdul El-Sayed agreed on one thing during Monday’s primary debate: Stevens is not an ogre. But Stevens used El-Sayed’s recent musings to donors about the national stakes of his victory to slam the progressive as being too focused on politics beyond Michigan. “He said that he’s not going to be able to get much done. That he’s not focused on policy for the first two years that he is in the United States Senate. That he’s going to be focused on national politics,” Stevens said during the debate. “Michigan needs a workhorse.” El-Sayed had told donors on a Zoom call that, if he were elected, he would back a primary challenge to Democratic Pennsylvania Sen. John Fetterman in 2028: “Ideally you put one ogre on a pike, and then everyone else gets the message,” he said, according to audio obtained and published by POLITICO on Monday. The recording offered the candidates a fresh opportunity to trade attacks in what has been a bitter and ferocious primary, marked by accusations of racism and sexism and battles over Israel’s influence and outside spending. Some Democrats were quick to assume El-Sayed’s “ogre” comment was in reference to Stevens, and criticized his word choice. In Monday’s debate, the final public face-off between the two candidates before the Aug. 4 primary, Fox 2 Detroit moderator Roop Raj asked El-Sayed if he regretted the remark. “I was referring to a guy named John Fetterman, who’s a senator from Pennsylvania, who has done terrible things, got elected on a set of values, and is now completely throwing those values in the mud,” El-Sayed said. He also attempted to redirect questions about the audio by implicating Stevens in the race’s heightened rhetoric, blaming her for AIPAC-funded ads portraying him as chauvinistic. Still, Stevens used the exchange to attack him for having higher political ambitions that could distract him from addressing the concerns of Michigan voters. Later in the debate, Stevens suggested El-Sayed is eyeing a future presidential run. She did offer him a tongue-in-cheek olive branch, though. “Thank you for clarifying that you didn’t call me an ogre,” she said. Related Tags Michigan Abdul El-Sayed Haley Stevens 2026 Elections Loading POLITICO Forecast Global power is in flux. Your daily guide to what comes next. Email By signing up, you acknowledge and agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service . You may unsubscribe at any time by following the directions at the bottom of the email or by contacting us here . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign Up * All fields must be completed to subscribe About Us Advertising Breaking News Alerts Careers Credit Card Payments FAQ Feedback Headlines Photos Press Request A Correction Write For Us RSS Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information and Opt Out of Targeted Advertising © 2026 POLITICO LLC