Real Madrid: Vinicius Junior drops huge future hint amid Arsenal interest | Football News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up Sport | Football Real Madrid: Vinicius Junior drops huge future hint amid Arsenal interest Brazilian football’s Vinicius has been linked to Arsenal and Manchester United, but heaps praise on new Real Madrid coach Jose Mourinho. Listen (2 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google Real Madrid's Vinicius Junior scored four times for Brazil at the FIFA World Cup 2026 [Marcelo Del Pozo/Reuters] By Reuters Published On 4 Aug 2026 4 Aug 2026 Real Madrid’s Brazilian ‌forward Vinicius Junior is settling into life under new manager ⁠Jose Mourinho ⁠with a smile on his face even as uncertainty swirls around his future at the Santiago Bernabeu. The 26-year-old, who has ⁠been one of the lynchpins of Real Madrid’s attack in recent years, gave an upbeat assessment of his second day of ⁠pre-season training under the Portuguese coach despite speculation linking him with a possible move to Arsenal. Recommended Stories list of 4 items list 1 of 4 UEFA’s threatened legal action against Infantino and FIFA: What we know list 2 of 4 Who are candidates to take on Infantino for FIFA presidency? All to know list 3 of 4 Ex-Arsenal boss Wenger was ‘not aware’ of Infantino’s FIFA plan list 4 of 4 UEFA confirms legal letter served to FIFA after Infantino’s World Cup plan end of list “It has gone very well, getting to know the new coach and the new players, and training very hard,” Vinicius told ‌Real Madrid TV on Tuesday. “Mourinho wants me to be as I have always been: happy, cheerful and playing my football.” Vinicius’ cheerful demeanour, however, masks a potentially thorny situation brewing behind the scenes. He is in the final year of his Real Madrid contract, with Spanish and British media reporting that the club and player remain locked in ⁠negotiations while Premier League champions Arsenal explore a ⁠potential transfer. Vinicius has scored 128 goals for Real and provided 100 assists, with the club reluctant to let one of their prized assets leave for free next year. He ⁠had a busy summer playing for Brazil at the World Cup, where they were knocked out ⁠in the last 16, and his focus ⁠now is on preparing for the new campaign. “We have to prepare physically so that during the season we have fewer injuries and can count on everyone,” said Vinicius, who ‌was Brazil’s top scorer at the World Cup with four goals. “It was a good training session, and we all left very tired. But ‌now, it’s time to rest [for more training on Wednesday]. That’s how pre-season is, and we have to be ready.” Advertisement Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network