All schools to get pupil attendance targets, government says - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat All schools in England to get pupil attendance targets, government says Image source, Getty Images By Kate McGough Education reporter Published 2 hours ago Every mainstream state school in England will be given their own target to improve pupil attendance, the government has confirmed. Schools will also be encouraged to offer more clubs and activities on Fridays, to improve attendance at the end of the week. It comes as official attendance data, published on Thursday, suggested school absence rates in England remained above pre-pandemic levels, with nearly one in five pupils missing at least 10% of school in the 2025/26 academic year. Education minister Paul Waugh said the new attendance targets would take each school's local challenges into account, but that "every school has a role to play to improve attendance". Before the Covid pandemic, when many schools closed to pupils for significant periods of time, attendance rates at English mainstream state schools regularly stayed above 95%, but schools have struggled to get back to those rates in the years since. Thursday's figures , external suggested an overall attendance rate of 93% for 2025/26, a slight decrease on the previous year. That includes both authorised absences, such as illness, and unauthorised absences, which is when pupils miss school without permission or a valid reason. The rates of persistent absence have doubled since the pandemic. A pupil is described as persistently absent if they miss at least 10% of school sessions. In 2018/19, persistent absence rates for England state schools were around 10%, while the most recent data showed it was at 19% in 2025/26. Pupils on free school meals and those with special educational needs and disabilities (SEND) were also still more likely to be absent from school than their peers. How to help your child have good attendance Many mainstream schools in England were given attendance targets specific to their school in a widespread trial last year, but on Thursday the Department for Education (DfE) confirmed that every school would be getting their own target and that it would be monitored for the first time. The BBC understands there will be no immediate penalties for schools who miss their attendance targets, but that the DfE will get in touch with schools that are off-track to make sure they are aware and taking action. Schools could then be pointed towards best practice guidance, or encouraged to join with other schools in a local behaviour and attendance hub . The regulator Ofsted already considers a schools' overall attendance rates in their inspections. In an opinion piece published in The Independent newspaper on Thursday, newly-appointed education minister Paul Waugh said the latest attendance stats showed "progress has slowed over the past year", and that the government's response needed to be "broader, smarter and more ambitious". Schools have been promised access to more data tools in the coming year to help them analyse individual pupils' attendance records, Waugh said, so they can identify concerns earlier and be "intervening more quickly when pupils begin to drift away from regular attendance". Fridays are "becoming a particular weak spot for attendance", he added, and said he would be investigating why pupil illness absences are regularly significantly higher at the end of each week. He called on schools to put on interesting clubs and enrichment sessions on Fridays "so every child stays engaged right through to the end of the week". Paul Whiteman, general secretary of schools leaders' union NAHT, said Thursday's attendance data showed "just how hard it is to drive absence rates back down to pre-pandemic levels". "Schools already go above and beyond in encouraging attendance, but it isn't a problem that they can solve alone or that government targets will fix," he said. "The issue often has roots beyond the classroom, from illness and mental health challenges to poverty and unmet special educational needs." He said it highlighted the importance of the government's upcoming reforms to the SEND system in England . The data released on Thursday also showed that nearly 12% of pupils missed school in the week beginning Monday 22 June, when an exceptional heatwave was affecting parts of England, leading to the highest absence rate of the year. Get in touch Do you have any views, comments or questions about this story? Contact form Contact form Related topics Schools Teaching More on this story Number of pupils missing more than half of school hits another record high Published 26 March The key changes being made to special educational needs - at a glance Published 23 February Number of term-time school holiday fines hits another record high Published 29 January The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:58 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns. 00:00:58, play video Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 1:19 England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations. 00:01:19, play video England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia Top stories Live . Major disruption on railways in northern England after Manchester power failure 12757 viewing 13k viewing Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases Published 1 hour ago Live . FA withdraw support for Infantino as Uefa say World Cup boycott may still go ahead 13583 viewing 14k viewing More to explore The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Rihanna is 'in the studio', says partner A$AP Rocky Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives Why aren't more women getting into padel? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order 2 Mark Hughes' son died of sudden adult death syndrome 3 Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' 4 Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases 5 Nadia Sawalha threatens ITV with legal action over Loose Women removal 6 Ukraine hits two oil refineries deep in Russian territory 7 Meredith Kercher's sister criticises Amanda Knox comedy show 8 All of England's rivers and lakes polluted with chemicals, officials say 9 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 10 All schools in England to get pupil attendance targets, government says BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.