‘No red line’: South Lebanon residents outraged as Israel resumes strikes | Conflict News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up Navigation menu Israel attacks Lebanon Israel bombs Lebanon What is Lebanon’s Beaufort Castle? Has Hezbollah been weakened? Why is Israel attacking Nabatieh? News | Conflict ‘No red line’: South Lebanon residents outraged as Israel resumes strikes People in southern Lebanon question their government’s approach as Israel launches more attacks and displacement orders. Listen (3 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google A site hit by Israeli strikes in Burj Shemali, southern Lebanon, August 6 [Reuters] By Al Jazeera Staff Published On 6 Aug 2026 6 Aug 2026 As Israel resumes strikes and issues forced displacement orders in southern Lebanon, residents of the region are expressing anger and helplessness during ongoing talks between Lebanese and Israeli officials. For displaced families, the latest round of strikes on Thursday, which injured at least eight people , is further evidence that the June “ceasefire” has failed to protect them from Israeli military action. The Israeli military sparked the latest wave of panic by issuing a forced evacuation order for the town of al-Mansouri on Wednesday, marking its first displacement directive in weeks. Recommended Stories list of 3 items list 1 of 3 WHO chief: Ebola outbreak in DRC spreading at ‘unprecedented rate’ list 2 of 3 Toronto police arrest two in US Consulate shooting investigation list 3 of 3 Trump signs new executive orders seeking to limit US birthright citizenship end of list “Mansouri is not part of Israel’s occupation zone,” Yousef Shehemi, mayor of the neighbouring town of Majdal Zoun, told Al Jazeera’s Zeina Khodr. “But Israel has no red lines – they target where they want. They have not respected any ceasefire.” Families from al-Mansouri who fled were still gathered on the outskirts of the town on Thursday, waiting for word that it was safe to return. Outrage was mounting on the ground as residents watched the Israeli military demolish homes and set fire to farmland, with many expressing little faith that ongoing negotiations between Lebanese and Israeli officials will secure their safe return. Abu Rached, a resident of Majdal Zoun, said the destruction had gone unanswered by Lebanese officials. “Can’t you see what they did to south Lebanon? They’re destroying it, displacing people – even the [Lebanese] army can’t stay in al-Mansouri,” he told Al Jazeera. “Where are the officials?” Advertisement Representatives from Lebanon and Israel met in Rome for another round of negotiations earlier this week, after both governments signed a “framework” intended to secure an Israeli withdrawal from Lebanon once Hezbollah is disarmed. Hezbollah, which is not a part of the ongoing talks, has publicly opposed the deal. The deal also envisioned “pilot zones”, which Israel would pull back from and the Lebanese army would move into to ensure there are no weapons outside the control of the Lebanese state, allowing displaced people to return. But so far, the agreement has not secured any significant Israeli withdrawal in southern Lebanon. The Israeli military has been systematically wiping out villages in southern Lebanon, demolishing buildings and burning olive groves, a push that critics say amounts to an ethnic cleansing campaign. Still, the region had seen relative calm over the past months. Hostilities renewed this week after an explosive device killed two invading Israeli soldiers, though it is not clear whether it was planted before or after the “ceasefire”. Hezbollah did not claim responsibility for the attack. The Israeli attacks were concentrated in al-Mansouri but not confined to it. Further north, in Burj Shemali, an Israeli strike hit a residential home, marking the first attack on the town since the “ceasefire” took effect in June. Almaza Hazim, a resident, described to Al Jazeera the chaos of trying to help a neighbouring family caught in the blast. “Our neighbour was screaming from the explosion. We ran to help them – there were injuries – before another strike destroyed the house,” Hazim said. Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network