Cyclosporiasis: What It Is, Causes, Prevention and the Best Prevention Products IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Top stories Owala’s back-to-school sale is here The best keratosis pilaris treatments for smoother skin Packing your skin care and makeup is so much easier with this toiletry bag How often should you change and wash your towels REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gearpost Walmart has up to 65% off back-to-school must-haves 35+ college-exclusive back-to-school deals Skip to Content About Us Wellness All Wellness Skin Care Hair Care Oral Care Health Fitness Sleep Home All Home Small appliances Bedding & bath Cleaning Vacuums Office Gardening Kitchen All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech All Tech Electronics Personal Tech TVs Audio Computers Cameras Pets All Pets Dogs Cats Pet Care Lifestyle All Lifestyle Sports Travel Parenting Apparel Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping Subscribe Share About Us Wellness Main Menu All Wellness Skin Care Wellness All Skin Care Hair Care Wellness All Hair Care Oral Care Wellness All Oral Care Health Wellness All Health Fitness Wellness All Fitness Sleep Wellness All Sleep Home Main Menu All Home Small appliances Home All Small appliances Bedding & bath Home All Bedding & bath Cleaning Home All Cleaning Vacuums Home All Vacuums Office Home All Office Gardening Kitchen Main Menu All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech Main Menu All Tech Electronics Tech All Electronics Personal Tech Tech All Personal Tech TVs Tech All TVs Audio Tech All Audio Computers Cameras Pets Main Menu All Pets Dogs Pets All Dogs Cats Pets All Cats Pet Care Pets All Pet Care Lifestyle Main Menu All Lifestyle Sports Travel Lifestyle All Travel Parenting Apparel Lifestyle All Apparel Footwear Lifestyle All Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales Main Menu All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories Main Menu All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides Main Menu All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping More from NBC Sign up for the Selected Newsletter Check out Shop TODAY NBC News TODAY About Help Careers Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information CA Notice Terms Of Service NBC News Sitemap Advertise Ad Choices Follow Selected © 2026 NBCNEWS.COM NBC Selected independently determines what we cover and recommend. When you click on or buy through our links, we earn a commission. Learn more . Wellness Cyclosporiasis cases have now been reported in 47 states — here’s what to do if you have the lettuce linked to it New cases of the intestinal illness have been reported across the United States. Updated Aug. 6, 2026, 4:15 PM EDT Bethany Heitman Commerce Editor Skip to table of contents According to experts, the best way to prevent getting this illness is by thoroughly washing your produce. Getty In this article Our top picks What is cyclosporiasis and how do you get it? What should you do if you have the recalled lettuce? How can you avoid getting cyclosporiasis? The best products for reducing the risk of cyclosporiasis How I picked the best products for reducing the risk of cyclosporiasis Frequently asked questions Why trust NBC Selected? See 5 More Cases of cyclosporiasis — an illness caused by a microscopic parasite often linked to contaminated fresh produce — continue to climb across the U.S. this summer, with outbreaks in 15 states linked to iceberg lettuce from Mexico. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has confirmed that nearly 7,000 cases have been reported, with nearly 300 hospitalizations and two deaths, while recent data from the Center for Disease Control (CDC) shows that laboratory-confirmed cases of cyclosporiasis have been reported in 47 states across the United States. The CDC is continuing to investigate this multistate surge and health officials in hard-hit areas are urging residents to take extra precautions with the produce they eat. So what exactly is cyclosporiasis, and how worried should you be? I have been monitoring the updates about cyclosporiasis as cases reported increase across the country and have updated this story to reflect the most current information known about it. Read on for everything you need to know — including which specific products have been linked to it and produce-washing items that can help you reduce your risk of infection. Selected. Our top picks Best for firm produce OXO Good Grips Vegetable Brush $undefined $9.95 Amazon Learn more Best for lettuce Farberware Salad Spinner $24.40 $27.99 Amazon Learn more Best for cooked produce TempPro TempSwift Digital Thermometer $9.99 $19.99 Amazon Learn more Related selected selected 1.5 million cartons of eggs have been recalled for Salmonella — here’s what you need to know (and do) to stay safe Want more from NBC Selected? Sign up for our newsletter, The Selection, and shop smarter. What is cyclosporiasis and how do you get it? Experts told NBC News that cyclosporiasis is an intestinal illness caused by a microscopic parasite called Cyclospora cayetanensis, or Cyclospora for short, which people contract by consuming food or water contaminated with feces. The recent outbreak has mostly been linked back to iceberg lettuce — specifically lettuce from Taylor Farms de Mexico . Both Taco Bell and Marketside-brand products available at Walmart used lettuce from this farm, though both have stopped since the discovery. Taylor Farms issued a voluntary recall of all their iceberg lettuce sourced from central Mexico. Not everyone who’s infected will feel sick, but, for those who do, the parasite targets the small intestine and typically causes watery diarrhea with frequent, and sometimes explosive, bowel movements, the CDC reports. Other symptoms include cramping, nausea, fatigue and a low-grade fever. Symptoms usually show up two to 14 days after exposure, and if left untreated, the illness can last anywhere from a few days to a month or longer, sometimes improving before returning. Importantly, direct person-to-person transmission is unlikely, since it takes at least one to two weeks outside the body for Cyclospora to become infectious after passing in a bowel movement. While uncomfortable and often prolonged, the infection is not usually life-threatening, according to the CDC . What should you do if you have the recalled lettuce? First, you’re likely wondering how to even tell if you have lettuce that has been recalled because it is at risk for cyclosporiasis. The iceberg lettuce from Taylor Farms de Mexico that is considered to be at risk was shredded iceberg sold to consumers in bags under the brands Taylor Farms and Marketside between June 29 and July 16. The expiration dates on the impacted batches are between July 16 and August 3, 2026. You can find more information on the affected products, lot codes, use-by dates and instructions for returning or disposing of the product on the FDA’s website and in Taylor Farms’ recall statement. If you have iceberg lettuce that has been recalled, you should throw it away or return it; do not consider washing it and eating it. Here’s why: While washing your produce is an important step, it doesn’t always get rid of this stubborn parasite, according to the CDC. The only thing that can kill the parasite is cooking your food so that it reaches an internal temperature of 158 degrees Fahrenheit. How can you avoid getting cyclosporiasis? When it comes to preventing cyclosporiasis, health officials at the CDC say the best thing you can do is practice safe food handling and wash items that are more likely to be contaminated with it — namely, produce. This is because cyclosporiasis can transfer between food items. Meaning, if your contaminated lettuce comes into contact with another item — like other produce or a cutting board — the parasite can transfer over. Washing all of your food and utensils well will help prevent this from happening. The best products for reducing the risk of cyclosporiasis You should always wash fruit and vegetables thoroughly before eating them as a general rule of thumb, but especially now with cyclosporiasis cases on the rise. Below, I’ve rounded up some highly-rated items that may help you prevent you and your loved ones from catching the intestinal illness. They’re simple to use, address the CDC’s specific recommendations and have thousands of positive ratings at different retailers. OXO Good Grips Vegetable Brush 19,045 Amazon Reviews $ 9.95 Amazon $ 9.95 $ 13.15 Walmart Now 24% off The CDC recommends scrubbing firm produce like melons and cucumbers to help reduce cyclosporiasis risk and this OXO brush makes it easier. It has sturdy nylon bristles that dislodge dirt in deep nooks and crannies, while the flexible, non-slip handle is comfortable to grip. Simply scrub produce under running water before cutting, cooking, or eating it. This tool is dishwasher-safe for easy cleanup, too. TempPro TempSwift Digital Thermometer 136,877 Amazon Reviews $ 9.99 $ 19.99 Amazon Now 50% off $ 14.99 Best Buy According to the CDC, cooking foods so they reach an internal temperature of 158 degrees Fahrenheit kills cyclopsoriasis. While not all produce that may carry this parasite is suitable for cooking (iceberg lettuce, we’re looking at you), it is helpful to cook the veggies that you can. This digital thermometer can help you ensure you cook your food to the proper temperature. Simply insert it into whatever you’re cooking and the digital display will tell you the temperature. Farberware Salad Spinner 20,017 Amazon Reviews $ 24.40 $ 27.99 Amazon Now 13% off I use a salad spinner in combination with white vinegar to clean fruit for my kids. You can use this to wash fruit and leafy greens year round. I fill the spinner with a vinegar and water solution and let my produce soak. Then, I pull out the colander with the fruit and dump the liquid from the bowl. I replace the colander and spin the produce until it’s dry before storing it all in the fridge. I find the spinning gets everything nice and dry so it’s less likely to mold in the fridge. Related selected selected The best plastic-free food storage containers for meal prep and more How I picked the best products for reducing the risk of cyclosporiasis To create the list above, I turned to guidance from the CDC on how cyclosporiasis spreads and the specific steps it recommends for reducing exposure, including thoroughly washing and scrubbing fresh produce before eating it. I also drew on previous reporting from NBC News and NBC Selected on foodborne illness and produce safety to understand which tools and habits experts have consistently cited as effective. From there, I prioritized products that are simple to use, address the CDC’s specific recommendations and have thousands of positive ratings. Frequently asked questions What causes cyclosporiasis? Cyclosporiasis is caused by a microscopic parasite called Cyclospora cayetanensis, which people contract by consuming food or water contaminated with feces. In the United States, outbreaks have most often been linked to fresh produce, like basil, cilantro, raspberries, and pre-cut salad mixes that were exposed to contaminated water at some point before reaching store shelves, according to the CDC. Notably, the illness isn’t spread person-to-person, since the parasite needs one to two weeks outside the body to become infectious after it’s passed in a bowel movement. Will cyclosporiasis clear up on its own? Cyclosporiasis can sometimes resolve without treatment, but it often doesn’t clear up quickly on its own. If left untreated, the illness can last anywhere from a few days to a month or longer, and symptoms may even improve before relapsing. Because of this, the CDC recommends seeing a doctor if you have symptoms, since a course of antibiotics can effectively treat the infection. Why trust NBC Selected? I am a commerce editor at NBC Selected and a journalist who regularly covers wellness, beauty, and lifestyle. I have also written about relieving shoulder pain and whether or not makeup wipes are bad for you. For this story, I gathered information from NBC News and the CDC on cyclosporiasis. Catch up on NBC Selected’s in-depth coverage of tech and tools , wellness and more, and follow us on Facebook , Instagram , Twitter and TikTok to stay up to date. Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off Bethany Heitman Bethany Heitman is a commerce editor at NBC Selected. Cyclosporiasis cases have now been reported in 47 states — here’s what to do if you have the lettuce linked to it How to get rid of bed bugs, and what you can use to avoid getting them at all 1.5 million cartons of eggs have been recalled for Salmonella — here’s what you need to know (and do) to stay safe Latest articles Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off In this article Our top picks What is cyclosporiasis and how do you get it? What should you do if you have the recalled lettuce? How can you avoid getting cyclosporiasis? The best products for reducing the risk of cyclosporiasis How I picked the best products for reducing the risk of cyclosporiasis Frequently asked questions Why trust NBC Selected? ABOUT CONTACT HELP CAREERS PRIVACY POLICY DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION CA NOTICE TERMS OF SERVICE NBC NEWS SITEMAP AD CHOICES ADVERTISE DEALS & SALES SKIN CARE HEALTH TECH NBCNews.com © 2026 SELECTED | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.