Russian drones target medics, hospitals and ambulances in Ukraine - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat World Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East 'I ran because I knew I would die': Russian drones target medics in Ukraine Image source, Inna Lytvynenko Image caption, Inna Lytvynenko says she was hunted by Russian drones when she tried to help a wounded woman in Kherson By Abdujalil Abdurasulov in Kyiv Published 8 August 2026, 01:02 BST Inna Lytvynenko always puts on her bright orange body armour when she's out on an emergency call. Last June, the paramedic was sent out in Kherson to treat a woman injured in a Russian drone attack, when an FPV drone smashed into her ambulance. Seconds later, she heard a buzzing sound in the sky. Another drone was flying straight towards her, fast. "I panicked. I grabbed my trauma bag and started running," she recalls. "I shouted and screamed. I knew that if I stopped, I would die." After chasing her for about 10 minutes, the drone flew away. Lytvynenko was quickly picked up by police. But what she called the "safari hunting" continued. Drones hit two more vehicles that arrived to take the injured woman to hospital. Hours later, a third police car finally managed to get her out. After another "safari" attack earlier this week, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky called to put greater pressure on Russia in order to stop deliberate "hunting attacks" on civilians. Image source, Provided by a third party Image caption, The frequency of attacks on healthcare suggests that they are "a sustained feature of the war", MSF says Hospitals and ambulances in Ukraine are increasingly coming under Russian drone and missile attack, even though, according to the international rules of war known as the Geneva Conventions, they must be protected by all parties to the conflict. "This is a new normality, which should not be the normality," says Dr Jarno Habicht, the World Health Organization's (WHO) representative in Ukraine. The WHO has registered 3,118 attacks on healthcare since the start of the Russian invasion in February 2022. "That's two cases per day," Habicht says. Since 2023 the number of attacks on healthcare has steadily grown. In 2024 it went up by 30%. Last year there was another 20% increase. This trend is expected to continue this year. A recent Doctors Without Borders (MSF) report , external says that Russia systematically and often deliberately targets Ukrainian medical facilities. The frequency of attacks on healthcare suggests that they are "a sustained feature of the war rather than an episodic consequence of large scale offensives," the report said. Last month Russian missiles hit a hospital in Kherson, badly damaging the building and killing one doctor. Hospital director Olena Tymoshenko believes it was a targeted attack. "It wasn't just one missile, there were three missiles that hit the hospital within a few minutes from each other. It cannot be an accident," she told the BBC. Figure caption, Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack Moscow also often uses a "double-tap" tactic, when they target the same location twice within a short period of time. Many believe that the second attack is deliberately aimed at first responders who arrive at the scene of the initial strike to rescue survivors. During a recent massive Russian air attack on Kyiv, seven people were killed, including a police officer and a volunteer, after a second strike on the same location. And lately Russian forces have been also targeting warehouses of humanitarian organisations. Last month alone, warehouses of three UN agencies, including the WHO, were damaged during air strikes. According to Habicht, the organisation shares coordinates of its facilities with both Moscow and Kyiv specifically in order to protect them from strikes. While missile and drone strikes can be indiscriminate, first-person view (FPV) drone strikes are almost always intentional. A drone pilot can see the target in a live feed from the drone's camera. So when it hits an ambulance, it has to be on purpose, says Robin Meldrum, MSF country coordinator in Ukraine. Dr Inna Lytvynenko says that she was wearing a uniform identifying her as a medical worker. The ambulance was also clearly marked. So, she believes the drone operator consciously chose to target them. Image source, Provided by a third party Image caption, A first drone hit Inna's ambulance in Kherson, while a second targeted her directly According to the WHO, strikes on ambulances make up 20% of all attacks on Ukraine's healthcare system, which suggests these are part of a calculated strategy. The result of such sustained attacks is that the civilian population close to the frontline are getting increasingly cut off from health services. The majority of people left in these areas are elderly people who often chronic diseases. Even if they survive air strikes and shelling, without medication and occasional check-ups they face a slow death. And ambulances may not be able to reach them if the risks are high. Lytvynenko and her colleagues constantly monitor social media to learn about threats. "It's really scary," she says. "Every time when we take a patient to hospital, we just pray. These drones can appear from anywhere, they can even get through anti-drone nets." In some cases, police are dispatched instead of ambulances. Since the danger zone where FPV drones operate is growing – as both Ukraine and Russia develop drones with greater and greater ranges – mobile clinics run by various health organisations have had to shift their operations further and further away from the frontline. "Two years ago, we could go up to 5-8km (3.1-5 miles) from the frontline," says Meldrum. "Now we won't go anywhere within 30km and this distance keeps growing." Over the past 18 months, MSF stopped regular visits to about 80 villages near the front where they had provided health services, says Meldrum. And recently it has paused ambulance services in Sloviansk, a major city in eastern Ukraine. "It doesn't feel like we're protected in this environment, and in the way that Russia is conducting the war," Meldrum says. "We don't feel that the rules of war are being respected." Related topics War in Ukraine Russia Ukraine More on this story Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack Published 3 days ago In Odesa, no-one is safe from Russia's new Black Sea strikes Published 2 days ago After deadly Kyiv strike, Ukraine warns interceptor shortage is costing lives Published 2 days ago The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:28 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update. 00:00:28, play video 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update 1:17 The tech that could map every tree on earth. 00:01:17, play video The tech that could map every tree on earth 0:59 Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 00:00:59, play video Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 1:07 Riding England's longest zip wire. 00:01:07, play video Riding England's longest zip wire 1:21 How many different cubes can you make? 00:01:21, play video How many different cubes can you make? 2:01 Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape. 00:02:01, play video Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape 1:02 Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter. 00:01:02, play video Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter 1:17 What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:17, play video What we know about the Thailand school shooting 0:48 Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 00:00:48, play video Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 0:53 Are you hung up on hangers? 00:00:53, play video Are you hung up on hangers? 0:52 Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 00:00:52, play video Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 0:31 The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 00:00:31, play video The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 0:43 Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan. 00:00:43, play video Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan 0:33 Moment raiders drive car into service station. 00:00:33, play video Moment raiders drive car into service station 1:11 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 00:01:11, play video 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 0:39 How much rain will end the drought? 00:00:39, play video How much rain will end the drought? 0:24 Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol. 00:00:24, play video Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol 1:43 Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment. 00:01:43, play video Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment 0:44 Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup. 00:00:44, play video Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup 1:00 What is 'food noise'? 00:01:00, play video What is 'food noise'? Top stories Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands Published 3 hours ago Infantino denies claims Uefa paid off alleged 'lover' Published 11 hours ago The phone book that led us to Assad's spy chief in hiding Published 10 hours ago More to explore I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock Pokémon hobby takes brothers to world championships 'We had to flee with just my daughter's clothes and dolls' Obesity rates have doubled in England since 1993 - what's going on? The 101-year-old who created a dolls' house museum with her childhood toys How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC With great power comes great responsibility She's not a bad girl anymore, wink wink wink wink Can a test tell you what's living inside your gut? How much discipline is too much in school? Most read 1 I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock 2 Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands 3 He's been frozen on Everest for 30 years, now 'Green Boots' may finally be coming home 4 Hunter Biden tells BBC his pardon was 'not good' for America or his father's legacy 5 Woman attacked by bed bugs during Travelodge stay 6 Digital cameras and wired earphones are back - and 'a bit more real' 7 Spain imposes border controls against Italy as row over Ceuta migrant influx intensifies 8 Airport disruption a 'shambles' as flights restart 9 How a former GB Olympian curbed his porn problem - and the signs and steps to recovery 10 The phone book that led us to Assad's spy chief in hiding BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.