NPS says Trump arch would harm historic sites. Could it move? : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics NPS says Trump arch would harm historic sites. Could it move? President Trump's proposed arch in Memorial Circle would intrude on dozens of nearby sites, says the National Park Service. But there's been minimal discussion of alternate locations. Politics The park service says Trump's arch would obstruct historic sites. Could it be moved? Updated August 6, 2026 4:14 PM ET Originally published August 6, 2026 2:19 PM ET By Rachel Treisman President Trump stands near models of his arch during an October 2025 event with White House ballroom donors. The administration's proposed design and location for the structure have changed little since then. Andrew Caballero-Reynolds/AFP via Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Andrew Caballero-Reynolds/AFP via Getty Images There's widespread opposition to the 250-foot arch President Trump wants to build near the National Mall, which would tower over a historic area already packed with monuments . This week, even Trump's own administration raised concerns. The National Park Service released a document listing 37 historic properties that it says would be adversely affected by the construction of an arch in Memorial Circle, a traffic roundabout just below Arlington National Cemetery. "The significance of these properties derives not only from their individual architectural or commemorative importance, but also from their spatial, visual, symbolic, and ceremonial interrelationships," reads the report. Sponsor Message National Critics say adding Trump's arch to D.C. would take something away: the view The National Park Service findings were released as part of an ongoing review process known as Section 106 . Under this section of the National Historic Preservation Act, federal agencies must evaluate the impact their actions could have on any historic properties and try to minimize harm. The assessment finds that an arch would interfere with dozens of historic sites in the area, particularly the key connection between the Lincoln Monument and Arlington House, the former home of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee. "The bridge alignment and associated ceremonial landscape were intended to physically and symbolically unite North and South through a coordinated monumental composition extending across the Potomac River," the report reads. The traffic circle where the arch would sit is right between the two landmarks. Critics say it would not only interfere with that view, but with the solemn atmosphere near the cemetery itself. A group of Vietnam War veterans has already sued to stop the arch's construction, stating that it would be a visual affront and needs congressional approval, which Trump denies and has not sought. The Trump administration wants to build its arch in Memorial Circle, a traffic island on the bridge between the Lincoln Memorial and Arlington National Cemetery. Julia Demaree Nikhinson/AP hide caption toggle caption Julia Demaree Nikhinson/AP The White House insists that Memorial Circle is an ideal place to locate the arch. In an email to NPR, it called the arch a "fitting addition to the monumental axis between the Lincoln Memorial and Arlington House." The administration has repeatedly stated that the arch will "enhance the visitor experience at Arlington National Cemetery." Sponsor Message This insistence frustrates Greg Werkheiser of the law firm, Cultural Heritage Partners, which is handling several lawsuits against the Trump administration's other D.C. construction projects. "It's as if the president is saying: 'Only if I jam my arch between Arlington Cemetery and the Lincoln Memorial and make it tower over everything else in the city will it be noticed,'" he said. National Trump's arch clears another hurdle, setting up a big debate: Do height limits apply? Preservationists say there are places in Washington, D.C., where an arch this size would impact far fewer historic properties. "I think people are opposed to the absurdity of locating an arch this size and of this design in the middle of what is almost a civil sacred landscape," Werkheiser said. "I think had he chosen an alternative, not only would some of the folks who are opponents now not be opponents, but I think they would be supporters." The National Park Service and the Department of the Interior did not answer NPR's questions about whether other locations were or are being considered. But the department downplayed critics' concerns about adverse effects. "The Arch will offer stunning views of Washington, D.C. from its observation deck, and the Arch itself will be visible from other historic properties, adding a monumental structure to the viewshed in a location that is currently a barren piece of grass," an Interior Department spokesperson told NPR in an email. Critics say the lack of discussion about alternative locations is just one flaw in a review process they see as happening both too quickly and too late. The Section 106 review only started in June, after the arch had already received final design approval from the first of two federal arts commissions reviewing it. That sequence of events is unusual, said Ed Stierli, the vice president of government affairs at the nonprofit National Parks Conservation Association. Sponsor Message "We're talking … not a whole lot of transparency, not even a meeting of the consulting parties has genuinely taken place," Stierli said. "And unfortunately, as this continues, it feels like more of a box-checking than an actual, legitimate process." The Trump administration's proposal for the arch includes this map, showing how Memorial Circle is situated between multiple historic landmarks. Harrison Design/National Capital Planning Commission hide caption toggle caption Harrison Design/National Capital Planning Commission Location, location, location Typically, conversations about new memorials and monuments start with the question of where to put them. "Even looking at some of the more recent memorials — like the Women's Suffrage National Monument that's still in the planning process — they weigh the pros and cons," Stierli said. "And they have to evaluate the alternatives, as well as what the impact is for visitors, before any of these are sited." He said a proposal for any sort of project in Memorial Circle deserves careful scrutiny because of the location's significance and symbolism. National A few people have played a big role in 'jamming through' Trump's arch, critics say "Anything that would be built there would be controversial," Stierli said. "But I think what makes this so controversial is the pure scale … We're talking about one of the largest monuments to ever be built in Washington, D.C." At 250 feet tall, the arch would be more than double the height of the nearby Lincoln Memorial. The National Park Service says its harms would extend much farther, to dozens of historic sites including the National Mall, U.S. Capitol and Washington Monument and its grounds. "They skipped over real consideration of alternatives and just went to what arguably is the most concentrated collection of important historic sites and landscapes and settings in the country," Werkheiser said. One of the people who did propose an alternative site was David Maloney, D.C.'s state historic preservation officer. He wrote a letter to the National Park Service in June suggesting the arch be located in a newly created traffic oval near the Frederick Douglass Bridge, which crosses the Anacostia River in southeast D.C. Sponsor Message The neighborhoods east of the river are predominantly Black, with a rich cultural history but higher poverty rates than the rest of D.C. Maloney said an arch there would be well positioned between Nationals Park and Audi Field, two of the city's sports venues, to "create an energizing focal point for a still-emerging neighborhood, suitable for a celebratory crowd." It would mark an entrance to D.C. on a direct axis with the Capitol, he said, and its height would be "more in scale" with the 288-foot tall Capitol dome. "And importantly, it would enhance … the city's monumental landscape rather than detracting from it," he wrote. National Veterans and relatives see no place for Trump's arch near Arlington National Cemetery Maloney said he was highlighting that particular location not as an endorsement of building an arch there, but "to emphasize the need to avoid the adverse historic effects as part of the Section 106 process." He did not respond to NPR's interview request. Maloney's suggestion was mentioned briefly at the July meeting of the National Capital Planning Commission, the second federal panel reviewing the proposal. "I've been intrigued and interested in this idea about bringing something that might strengthen Anacostia River East by bringing it to an area that would [have] an impact on our community that could be positive, maybe," said Arrington Dixon, a planning commissioner who grew up in that neighborhood . David Maloney, D.C.'s state historic preservation officer, suggested the arch could be built near the Frederick Douglass Memorial Bridge in southeast D.C. with fewer negative consequences. Andrew Harnik/AP hide caption toggle caption Andrew Harnik/AP But the topic of location went largely unexplored at the meeting. After two hours of public pushback and many unanswered questions , commissioners voted to advance the arch to the next phase of review. The National Capital Planning Commission next meets in early September. Its Trump-appointed chair has said the commission could potentially grant the arch final approval then — though its own rules say it can't do so until the Section 106 review is complete. The National Park Service gave the groups involved in the Section 106 review process until Thursday to weigh in on its latest findings. Sponsor Message National Trump allies vote to weaken protections for historic sites — not just in D.C. In letters shared with NPR, two groups expressed their strong opposition to the arch in its proposed location, and to what they called an inadequate review process. Charles Birnbaum, the founding president and CEO of advocacy nonprofit The Cultural Landscape Foundation, called the process "horrifically flawed from the outset." He said the specifics and location of the arch were chosen by the administration, without input from any sort of design competition or preliminary consultations. Rebecca Miller, the executive director of the D.C. Preservation League, went a step further: "Let's stop calling this a proper Section 106 process." "There is nothing normal about how this consultation is taking place – no avoidance, no minimization, no mitigation – just adverse impacts on the whole of our federal city," she wrote. "Trying to convince anyone otherwise is just insulting to those of us who have participated in these undertakings in good faith for decades." Weakening the review process As it stands, the Section 106 review process is one of few procedural hurdles the arch has yet to clear. And the Trump administration is poised to weaken it. In late July, the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation — which is made up of a majority of Trump allies — voted to rewrite Section 106 to make it easier for the federal government to build on historic properties anywhere in the country. The council argues that the existing Section 106 rules create confusion and delays in federal construction. It wants to limit what kinds of sites are considered historic, what counts as an adverse effect and the amount of public input required for that process. That would have implications for the arch, among other things. National The many ways Trump wants to change D.C., from buildings to statues to parks "Even if they did consult [the public], they wouldn't have to consider the obvious harm to the setting of putting an arch that's this tall literally jammed in the middle of the sight lines between Arlington Cemetery and the Lincoln Memorial," Werkheiser said. The new Section 106 language is currently working its way through the federal rule-making process, which involves a 30-day public comment period. Werkheiser said legal challenges are inevitable at a later stage. Congress theoretically has the power to block the new monument — and a group of House Democrats have introduced a bill to do so. But the Republican majority is unlikely to vote to kill the arch. trump administration Trump arch Washington, DC national mall Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after Politics Senate Homeland Security committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress Health A new flu vaccine geared to older people is coming soon National Veterans and relatives see no place for Trump's arch near Arlington National Cemetery Life Kit: Health The dos and don'ts of taking over-the-counter pain medications : Life Kit: Health Education Trump administration moves to deregulate Head Start, opening door for sweeping change More Stories From NPR Up First Newsletter El-Sayed wins Michigan's primary. And, Fauci faces contempt of Congress vote Politics Celebrity culture is one thing. For TMZ, Congress is the new 'reality show' Politics Senate Homeland Security committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress Consider This from NPR What do Tuesday’s primaries signal about where the Democratic Party is headed? Law Judge reluctantly dismisses case against Oath Keepers militia group over Jan. 6 riot Politics Progressive Abdul El-Sayed wins Michigan's Democratic primary for Senate Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after Middle East conflict Iran aims to ban U.S. and Israeli ships from Strait of Hormuz and charge others a toll Health A new flu vaccine geared to older people is coming soon Education Trump administration moves to deregulate Head Start, opening door for sweeping change The Ripple Effect The keepers of the Grateful Dead's history TV Reviews 'Furious' is an unforgettable thriller, not just a 'Black Widow' remake NPR Editors' Picks Research News Sticky or slippery? Snails can change their slime to meet the moment Author Interviews Death is everywhere in the desert — it's where Claire Vaye Watkins feels most alive Sports European nations say World Cup boycott is still on, keeping FIFA's Infantino in limbo Global Health This country is the latest to hit the elusive 95/95/95 HIV target Europe Drone with explosives found at German airport, official sees 'new quality' of threat Health Dr. Erica Schwartz confirmed as CDC director, filling a leadership vacuum Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices