Senate confirms Dr. Erica Schwartz as CDC director : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Senate confirms Dr. Erica Schwartz as CDC director Schwartz takes command of a public health agency that has lost thousands of employees, amid layoffs, resignations and leadership turmoil. Health Dr. Erica Schwartz confirmed as CDC director, filling a leadership vacuum Updated August 5, 2026 8:41 PM ET Originally published August 5, 2026 4:00 PM ET Heard on All Things Considered Pien Huang Dr. Erica Schwartz confirmed as CDC director, a new leader for a beleaguered agency Listen · 2:49 2-Minute Listen Playlist Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5920379/nx-s1-9876730" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Dr. Erica Schwartz, who appeared before the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee in July, was confirmed Wednesday as CDC director. Finn Gomez/Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Finn Gomez/Getty Images The U.S. Senate confirmed Dr. Erica Schwartz as director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, nearly a year after the last permanent director was fired in a dispute over vaccine policy with Health Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. Health A leadership vacuum adds to strains on the CDC The vote on Schwartz's nomination was 51-44 in favor, almost entirely along party lines. She will take command of a public health agency that has lost thousands of employees in the second Trump administration amid layoffs, resignations and leadership shakeups. The CDC is currently responding to surges in measles cases, cyclosporiasis outbreaks and an Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Uganda. "I really wish her luck in her new role," said Dr. Demetre Daskalakis, a former top CDC official who resigned last year, "But I would also say, it's not about the job, it's about the public health mission – and that needs to be her focus." Sponsor Message In a July confirmation hearing, Sen. Bill Cassidy led some Republicans in hard questions about vaccines and whether she would support their use if pressured by Kennedy. Cassidy ultimately voted to advance her nomination out of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee after she allayed his concerns. He also voted in favor of confirmation. "After speaking with Dr. Schwartz again after the hearing, reviewing the transcript and speaking to those who served with her and know her well, I'm confident that she knows what she is doing and will stand against those who do not," Cassidy said on July 23. But most Democrats and Independents were not convinced that she would uphold science- and evidence-based policies, if they conflicted with the positions of Kennedy and the Trump administration. Sen. Bernie Sanders, an independent from Vermont and ranking member on the health committee, voted against her advancement out of committee and against her nomination on the Senate floor Wednesday. While Sanders said he was impressed by Schwartz's credentials and service, he did not think she was prepared to stand up to Kennedy's false statements on vaccines and other health topics. "I think the American people are owed better than what President Trump has nominated," Sanders said on July 30. Sponsor Message Daskalakis, the former CDC official who resigned last August, said Schwartz has her work cut out for her. "I really wish her luck in her new role," he told NPR . "But I would also say, it's not about the job, it's about the public health mission. And that needs to be her focus." Many in the public health community shared the concerns that Schwartz might not defend science-based policies from political pressure, based on her performance at the hearing. When asked how she would respond if Kennedy asked her to approve recommendations regardless of scientific evidence – as he did with the previous CDC director – Schwartz responded that Kennedy would never ask her to do that. "That seemed to me like an evasion," said Dr. Amesh Adalja , an infectious diseases physician and senior scholar with the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security. "Her performance came up far short of what I was hoping for." But others thought Schwartz navigated the confirmation process professionally. "Public health people in these positions often have to manage through influence. You don't get influence by disagreeing with your boss publicly before you even get the job," said Dr. Georges Benjamin, CEO of the American Public Health Association. Major challenges ahead Schwartz is expected to be sworn into the role in the next few days. Now that she has the job, she's got major challenges ahead – including those created by the actions of the Trump Administration, Benjamin said: "The CDC's influence has diminished dramatically since they've taken over. You have to second-guess and verify what is said. We never had to do that before." Schwartz is the second CDC director to be Senate-confirmed, following a law passed in the 2023 Consolidated Appropriations Act. The first Senate-confirmed director, Susan Monarez, served for less than a month before being fired by Kennedy last August. Monarez later told Congress that Kennedy pressured her to rubber-stamp vaccine policies without reviewing scientific evidence. Sponsor Message Some fear Schwartz could also be vulnerable to political interference. "I don't know how someone that has integrity or professional commitment to the field can actually survive in this situation and not have the same fate," said Adalja with Hopkins. Many career scientists have left the CDC, and political appointees have taken charge, said Daskalakis, the former top official at CDC. "My advice to [Schwartz] is to look at her Office of the Director, and make sure that the people there are actually looking after science and the health of the American people, rather than the interests of the Secretary." Secretary Kennedy has been critical of the agency and dismissive of its scientific expertise. Schwartz will also be taking the lead on managing the CDC response to multiple ongoing outbreaks, such as Cyclospora and measles. She could make immediate progress by improving coordination between states and counties, and communicating with the public, said the APHA's Benjamin. "These are things she can do to rally the troops and get our hands around those outbreaks pretty quickly, taking back the public health visibility role of the CDC director," Benjamin said. Advice from a past CDC director Nearly a year ago, on Aug. 8 , a gunman attacked the CDC's main campus in Atlanta, shooting hundreds of rounds into buildings occupied by staff who hid in closets and crouched under desks. "The new director is stepping into a moment where the agency has been under a lot of strain," said Dr. Mandy Cohen, who served as CDC director under President Biden, citing the shooting, the major cuts to funding and multiple outbreaks of infectious diseases. "Her job is to navigate between the policy world and the scientific world, and make sure they stay in alignment with each other," Cohen said. "That is going to be a hard job for her." Sponsor Message When she assumed the role, Cohen spoke with past directors of the CDC and the Department of Health and Human Services, which oversees the CDC, and recommends that Schwartz do the same. "These are hard jobs – only a few people on the planet have stood in those shoes," she said. Cohen would also advise Schwartz to focus her efforts on three fronts: being present and accessible at the Atlanta headquarters to help lead and re-invigorate the CDC workforce, being available to Congress to educate and guide legislators and frequently communicating and interacting with the American public so they better understand how the CDC is responding to outbreaks, for instance. She urged Schwartz to articulate "what she is trying to accomplish at CDC so that Congress makes the investments needed in the work." Another key mindset, in these times, is understanding her limits to protect her integrity, said Dr. Dan Jernigan, a former top official at CDC who resigned last year. "My personal view is that anybody that takes the position as director of CDC at this time should come through the door on day one ready to get fired," he said. During her confirmation hearing, Schwartz pledged to never compromise on science. "My sacred responsibility is to provide the American people with public health guidance that is clear, honest and evidence-based," she said. Signs of success, Jernigan said, would be seeing Schwartz advocate for vaccines, and make public statements that demonstrate her willingness to speak and act independently in following the science and not the ideology. CDC HHS vaccine policy measles Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Health CDC director nominee Erica Schwartz faced questions in Senate hearing Elections Progressives see biggest win yet in Michigan, while Trump flexes power over GOP Trump's Terms Trump's third check-up at Walter Reed raises more questions about his health : Trump's Terms Health Black lung rates in Appalachia are high as the 1970s, with thousands of miners sick Law Federal judges face scrutiny after alleged misconduct in 3 states Politics House Ethics Committee will investigate Ohio Republican Max Miller More Stories From NPR Healthcare How deep-rooted medical bias creates deadly consequences for addiction patients Your Health Nicotine pouches can be marketed as 'lower risk' than cigarettes. Is that dangerous? Health Black lung rates in Appalachia are high as the 1970s, with thousands of miners sick It's Been a Minute The questionable new ways to surveil your friends Healthcare How a community in Maine is fighting to save their birthing center Global Health They're a world leader in using drones for healthcare. But drones can't do it all Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Politics Senate committee set to vote on whether to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress Europe Drone with explosives found at German airport, official sees 'new quality' of threat Elections Progressives see biggest win yet in Michigan, while Trump flexes power over GOP The Ripple Effect The keepers of the Grateful Dead's history The Indicator from Planet Money How ending TPS is squeezing workers, businesses and (soon) consumers The Indicator from Planet Money Trump’s new Truth Social plan: pay $100K NPR Editors' Picks Politics Celebrity culture is one thing. For TMZ, Congress is the new 'reality show' Sports Gianni Infantino gets internal support at crisis meeting to remain as FIFA president Asia Ousted Bangladeshi leader vows to return from exile despite facing a death sentence Immigration Small Texas law firm set to receive $150M to represent unaccompanied migrant children World Cafe How Midwest doldrums became a gift for Kevin Morby Asia Pakistan's ruling party leads in Kashmir vote despite boycott call by banned group Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices