Wall Street's 'fear gauge' is doing something unusual as stocks hit record highs Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Options Action Options Action Wall Street's 'fear gauge' is doing something unusual as stocks hit record highs Published Wed, Aug 5 2026 3:18 PM EDT Oliver Renick @OJRenick WATCH LIVE In this article .VIX .SPX .NDX Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. NYSE Tuesday's rally was so intense that it's shaking up some of the usual assumptions around volatility pricing. The Cboe Volatility Index (VIX) – sometimes referred to as the stock market's "fear gauge" – rose a full point in the midst of Tuesday's breakout 1.8% rally in the S&P 500 . As stocks extended gains in the first hour of trading Wednesday, the volatility gauge was up alongside equities again. As the market softened and reversed, the VIX fell. The VIX index and the S&P 500 in the past five trading days It's a clear-cut example of something that happens about 20% of the time: Stocks and the VIX move together about 20% of the time. This tends to occur when the VIX is low and a large amount of call buying occurs in a rapidly rising market. That call buying forces the VIX to rise even as stocks are going up, which has occurred this week. More than 4 million S&P 500 index calls traded on Cboe Tuesday, a new all-time record volume, according to the exchange. At the same time, at Nasdaq, the price for call options betting on a one-standard deviation move in the Nasdaq 100 surged 42% — the biggest single-day jump in five years, according to Nations Indexes data. That extreme demand – while entirely bullish in sentiment – lifts the prices of options and implied volatility, which in turns keeps the VIX bid alongside stocks. In other words, exuberant call buying is driving the VIX higher. On Tuesday, the put-to-call ratio fell to 0.83, the second lowest reading on record. It also creates some unique setups for both bullish and bearish traders. The first implication is that bulls should be wary of owning far out-of-the-money call options. Generally, when the price of something goes up 42% overnight, it's not exactly a discount bargain anymore. In the case of options, where implied volatility is a key contributor to a contract's value, it creates a potential double-whammy scenario for call buyers when both the price of the underlying asset and its volatility drops. This is precisely what happened midday Wednesday as stocks and the VIX declined. On the flipside, with the VIX still sitting at or near long-term averages, it creates a potential win-win scenario for investors who don't want to sell stocks but are worried about big swings. If days like Tuesday repeat, stocks and hedges can work together. If the market falls sharply, VIX will likely also rise, so long-vol hedges will work. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. More In Options Action watch now watch now VIDEO 01:11 CBOE sees record day Tuesday with 4 million calls traded Oliver Renick watch now watch now VIDEO 01:24 Sandisk sees $1 billion in options trades ahead of earnings Oliver Renick watch now watch now VIDEO 01:45 Options Action: Stocks vs. Volatility Oliver Renick Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by