More or less protein? What to eat to get you through a heatwave - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Health More protein or less? The foods to get you through a heatwave Image source, Getty Images By Philippa Roxby Health reporter Published 8 July 2026 As temperatures exceed 30C (86F) in some parts of the UK this week, the last thing people want to do is turn on the oven. Not only can cooking in hot weather feel like a chore, but many of us find ourselves feeling less hungry altogether. So when the heat gets too much, should we consider changing our diet? Here are three things to think about next time you're hot and hungry. 1. Don't sweat over protein intake Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Cooking chicken in an air fryer uses less than half the energy of a conventional oven "There's no need for more protein in a heatwave," says Aisling Daly, senior lecturer in nutrition at Oxford Brookes University. But if you fancy it, some of the most common proteins will need cooking (like meat, chicken and fish) and that can be off-putting in the heat. Even an outdoor BBQ can be too hot to handle. Enter the air fryer. Cooking a chicken leg in the worktop device uses less than half the energy of a conventional oven, according to Radio 4's Sliced Bread . And because they are smaller and speedier, they also pump less heat into your kitchen. But experts say don't forget about your slightly less fashionable slow cooker - likely buried in the back of your cupboard. Even though they run for longer, they're typically more energy efficient and release even less heat than the air fryer. The reality, though, is that simply by eating and digesting protein, our bodies produce more heat than other food groups. That's due to the energy needed by the stomach, intestines and liver to break down and absorb these complex molecules. So that steak you crave will only bring you out in a sweat. But you can also get your protein from lentils, nuts, milk, tofu and cheese too. To reduce body heat while still getting your protein fix, Dr Daly recommends focusing on things like bean salads, eggs, pre-cooked meats and plenty of Greek yoghurt (frozen too). Making a smoothie by blending up fruit, veg and yogurt (while adding in peanut butter for protein) can provide a balanced, nutritious meal in an easy way. And it might also be time to turn to some lighter fish, such as tuna, salmon or prawns. 2. Eat your water When it's hot, we lose water when we sweat, so we need to replace it or we become dehydrated. Six to eight glasses of fluid a day is normally recommended by the NHS, , external and in a heatwave you could need a lot more. "There is no single amount that suits everyone, because how much fluid your body needs depends on lots of factors like your age, body size, activity levels and health status," says Dr Charlotte Mills, food and nutrition scientist at the University of Reading. World Cup footballers aren't the only ones who benefit from hydration breaks: other athletes and pregnant and breastfeeding women are among those who need to drink more. But rehydrating doesn't just mean refilling your water bottle every couple of hours. "We need to eat our water as well as drink it," says Dr Daly, "80-90% of fruit and vegetables are full of water." Cucumber, tomatoes, lettuce, celery, watermelon and strawberries all have very high water content, above 90%. Apples, carrots, cooked broccoli and pears contain 80% to 89% water, as do oranges, grapes and pineapple. In comparison, boiled eggs are 75% water , external , with digestive biscuits only 2.8% water , external . Even a cheese and tomato pizza is 38% water, with takeaway chips containing as much as 51%. If your mouth has dried up just reading this, try some of these water-rich recipes . A useful way to check if you're hydrated is to check the colour of your urine. Pale yellow is what you're after. If it's orangey or dark brown, that's a sign that your kidneys - which filter waste products and produce urine - are holding onto water because there isn't enough in the body. That means you're dehydrated and need to drink more. 3. Yes, hot drinks can cool you down Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Warm or room-temperature drinks are just as good as cold ones for cooling you down We know some people love a cuppa, even when it's sweltering, and that actually makes scientific sense. Warm or room-temperature drinks are just as good as cold ones for cooling you down, says Dr Daly. Research suggests your body sweats more quickly to get rid of the excess heat after a hot drink. After a cold drink, your body sweats more slowly. Your body is trying to keep your core temperature steady at about 37 degrees celsius. So hot tea won't necessarily help you cool down more quickly - the key thing is to stay hydrated no matter the temperature of the liquid. You don't need to shun your favourite coffee either just because it's hot - although too much caffeine can make the body produce more urine, and leave you dehydrated. For matcha fans, the drink contains more caffeine than a cup of tea but less than a regular coffee. Dr Daly says one or two coffees a day should make little difference to your hydration levels - but five or six will start to have an effect. Bear in mind that drinking alcohol also dehydrates. You could structure your day differently too, and take a southern European approach to eating. Have an early breakfast, an afternoon siesta while it's very hot and then a late dinner. Bon appetit. Get our flagship newsletter with all the headlines you need to start the day. Sign up here. Related topics Health Diet & nutrition More on this story How to cope in a heatwave - according to you Published 12 August What does hot weather do to the body? Published 22 June Amber heat-health alerts issued as UK could see 10 consecutive days of temperatures over 30C Published 6 July The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:34 Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents. 00:00:34, play video Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents 1:05 What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident. 00:01:05, play video What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident 0:29 How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 00:00:29, play video How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 1:27 Are older and younger generations in conflict? 00:01:27, play video Are older and younger generations in conflict? 1:18 Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 00:01:18, play video Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 0:48 Model's photos used to catfish women. 00:00:48, play video Model's photos used to catfish women 1:29 The inventor who refused to take no for an answer. 00:01:29, play video The inventor who refused to take no for an answer 1:07 How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 00:01:07, play video How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 1:01 E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths. 00:01:01, play video E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths 1:07 NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England. 00:01:07, play video NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England 0:52 Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion. 00:00:52, play video Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion 0:59 Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation. 00:00:59, play video Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation 0:35 Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend. 00:00:35, play video Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend 1:25 Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings. 00:01:25, play video Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings 0:55 Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 00:00:55, play video Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 0:48 Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances. 00:00:48, play video Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances 1:16 GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview. 00:01:16, play video GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview 1:07 What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 00:01:07, play video What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 0:58 '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 00:00:58, play video '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 0:29 Where does salmonella get its name? 00:00:29, play video Where does salmonella get its name? Top stories Live . Rescue efforts enter fifth day on Nepal-Tibet border with more than 2,400 missing after flash flood 1122 viewing 1.1k viewing At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot Published 3 hours ago Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor Published 7 hours ago More to explore Dolly Parton's dad couldn't read - it inspired her to send books to millions of children Sweetcorn ice creams and pastries: The latest 'swavoury' trend taking over your feed How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works We helped create UK emergency alert system - but question how government is using it Hypermobility - the little-known 'bendy disease' that causes pain and fatigue Strong winds and thunderstorms kick off the bank holiday weekend 'I thought diet clubs weren't for men' Embroidery on display as town celebrates conqueror Royal Watch: Get the latest royal stories and analysis with Sean Coughlan’s weekly newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Low-key noughties sitcom starring Robert Webb and Paula Wilcox Keith Richards recalls how he wrote the iconic 'Satisfaction' An unlikely gang set out to catch a killer who shattered rural peace Did Emily ruin Paris? Most read 1 Rescue to continue overnight for 'in distress' vessel carrying five in the Channel 2 Sarah Ferguson expected back in the UK 'shortly', source says 3 Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor 4 I've been to Gamescom six times - here's what excited me this year 5 'Healey eyes banks and oil tax' and 'X Factor comeback' 6 Norway's new king remembers 'my dear father' in first speech 7 How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works 8 They fell in love - then had to check they weren't brother and sister 9 Man dies after train hits van on crossing 10 At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.