'Spider-Man' joins list of 2026 billion-dollar movies Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Entertainment Hollywood is cranking out billion-dollar movies again. 'Spider-Man' just joined the ranks Published Wed, Aug 5 2026 5:15 PM EDT Updated Wed, Aug 5 2026 5:55 PM EDT Sarah Whitten @sarahwhit10 WATCH LIVE Key Points The theatrical industry welcomed its fourth billion-dollar film of 2026 this week as Sony and Marvel's "Spider-Man: Brand New Day" surpassed the coveted benchmark. Already part of the 2026 class is Universal's "The Super Mario Galaxy Movie," Lionsgate's "Michael" and Disney and Pixar's "Toy Story 5." It's the highest number of billion-dollar film releases in a single year since the Covid pandemic, and analysts say it bodes well for a film industry that is still chasing 2019 levels, even with higher prices. In this article SONY LION DIS CMCSA WBD Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT "Toy Story 5," "The Super Mario Galaxy Movie" and "Spider-Man Brand New Day." Disney | Universal Pictures | Sony Billion-dollar films are back in Hollywood. The theatrical industry welcomed its fourth billion-dollar film of 2026 this week as Sony and Marvel's "Spider-Man: Brand New Day" surpassed the coveted benchmark. It joins the three-comma ranks alongside Universal's "The Super Mario Galaxy Movie," Lionsgate's "Michael" and Disney and Pixar's "Toy Story 5." The group should soon be joined by Universal's "The Odyssey," which has tallied $912 million globally through Sunday and is set to play in theaters through at least mid-September. Box office analysts expect Warner Bros. ' "Dune: Part Three" and Disney and Marvel's "Avengers: Doomsday" to also reach the billion-dollar figure later this year. As it stands, this is the highest number of billion-dollar film releases in a single year since the Covid pandemic shuttered movie theaters and halted production six years ago. In 2019, nine films pulled in at least $1 billion at the box office. Seven of those films were Disney titles. Its co-production of "Spider-Man: Far From Home," in partnership with Sony, and Warner Bros.' "Joker" completed the list. On Wednesday, Disney touted the success of "Toy Story 5" as helping to propel its studios division during its most recent quarter even as the live-action "Moana" and "Star Wars: The Mandalorian and Grogu" films fell short of expectations. Of course, modern blockbusters are benefitting more from higher-priced tickets both for standard screenings and premium large format showings. Imax , Dolby Cinemas, ScreenX and 4DX have all reported record ticket sales because of films like "The Odyssey" and "Spider-Man: Brand New Day." In 2025, more than 16% of tickets sold for domestic showtimes were for these PLFs, according to data from EntTelligence. That's up from 15% in 2024 and 13.8% in 2023. These premium tickets can cost upward of $25 or more in places like New York City or Los Angeles, but average around $18.22 a piece nationally, EntTelligence reports. That's up 8% from 2023. Standard movie tickets, too, are getting pricier. In 2019, the average movie ticket cost a little more than $9, according to data from Cinema United. Now, the average is closer to $13.50, EntTelligence reports. Still, the hauls are a promising signal for a film industry that's still chasing 2019 levels, even with the benefit of higher prices. The domestic annual box office is currently on pace to cross $10 billion for the first time in seven years. Through Monday, the year-to-date haul stands at $6.2 billion, down 11% from 2019. "The billion-dollar club has always been treated as a special box office milestone," said Shawn Robbins, director of analytics at Fandango and founder of Box Office Theory. "It's also one that's become more challenging to achieve since the pandemic." "The sheer number of films crossing this threshold can be a good indicator of a banner year," he added. Unlike 2019, the 2026 class of billion-dollar films are spread across multiple studios and include not just sequels and franchise films but a musical biopic and a cinematic retelling of a 2,700-year-old epic poem. The broad success signals to Hollywood that it can take more risks on genre films and spread the wealth among more players. The resurgence in the number of billion-dollar films has been fueled in part by younger demographics that Hollywood and Wall Street previously worried would abandon cinemas in favor of their phones. "The demise of the theatrical experience has once again been greatly exaggerated," said Mike Polydoros, CEO at cinema marketing firm PaperAirplane Media. "Driving much of this resurgence is the growing influence of Gen Z, which accounted for 49% of 'Spider-Man: Brand New Day''s opening-day audience and 30% of 'The Odyssey''s opening-day crowd." watch now VIDEO 4:35 04:35 Gen Z is fueling the box office comeback CNBC Digital Original Video Generation Z, whose members range from around 14 to 29 years old, is one of the most active moviegoing demographics, and Gen Zers attend more films per year than some of their older peers. It also accounted for nearly 40% of all movie audiences in North America in 2025, Rentrak reported. And the return to movie theaters isn't just happening domestically, but internationally, too. The foreign market is vitally important to Hollywood. Among the the four films that have generated at least $1 billion globally this year, more than 50% of box office receipts have come from outside the U.S. and Canada. "Notably, there has never been a film released domestically that has ever earned over a billion dollars in North America alone," Paul Dergarabedian, head of marketplace trends for Rentrak, told CNBC. "Only 'Star Wars: The Force Awakens' has even come close, with $936.7 million." Disclosure: Versant is the parent company of CNBC and Fandango. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by