Daniel Kinahan: Irish government jet travels to UAE for extradition - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat World Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East Irish government jet travels to UAE for Kinahan extradition Image source, Collins Photo Agency Image caption, Daniel Kinahan pictured in 2016 By Barry O'Connor BBC News NI Published 8 August 2026, 18:17 BST Updated 3 hours ago An Irish government jet has travelled to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) as part of an operation to extradite suspected crime boss Daniel Kinahan. Kinahan was arrested in Dubai under a warrant issued by the Irish courts in April but has fought attempts to extradite him. His appeals have been unsuccessful and it is expected that he is due to be flown back to Ireland on Sunday, according to Irish broadcaster RTÉ. He will then be taken to the Special Criminal Court in Dublin. On Kinhan's return to Ireland, RTÉ have said that a large security operation will be in place and the prison service has also upgraded facilities in the maximum-security Portlaoise Prison. The US government imposed sanctions on him in April 2022 after he and other members of his family were identified as leaders of the Kinahan organised crime cartel. Kinahan also had ties to the world of sport via his now defunct boxing management company MTK Global, which represented more than 100 boxers including Tyson Fury and Carl Frampton. Irish authorities are expected to prosecute him for his involvement in leading an organised crime group. An extradition agreement is in place between the UAE and Ireland and it was used to extradite Sean McGovern, a "senior lieutenant" in the organised crime group. He was sentenced to 24 years in prison in June for directing the activities of a criminal organisation. Image source, CAROLINE QUINN/GETTY IMAGES Image caption, Gangland rivals tried to shoot Daniel Kinahan during a boxing weigh-in event in Dublin's Regency Hotel 10 years ago On 5 February 2016, an attempt was made on Kinahan's life in what became known as the Regency Hotel shooting. One of his associates, David Byrne, was shot dead , while two others were shot and injured. This incident was part of what became known as the Hutch-Kinahan feud which has so far cost 18 lives. What is the Kinahan cartel? For more than 20 years the group has been responsible for importing tonnes of drugs and firearms around the world, the National Crime Agency (NCA) previously said. The NCA said the crime group is linked to more than a dozen gangland murders. The US Treasury Department describes the Kinahan cartel as one of the most dangerous in the world, comparable to crime organisations like Italy's Camorra, Mexico's Los Zetas and Japan's Yakuza. A reward of up to $5m (£3.84m) has also been offered by the US for information on the three most senior Kinahan gang members - Daniel, his father Christopher Snr, 65, and brother Christopher Jnr. According to former Gardaí (Irish police) Commissioner Drew Harris, the gang is estimated to have made more than €1bn (£836,590,000) globally from its activities. In 2022, Thomas Kavanagh, who the NCA said ran the group's criminal operations in the UK, was jailed for 21 years alongside Gary Vickery and Daniel Canning , who were sentenced to 20 years and 19 and a half years respectively. The NCA said evidence showed they were responsible for cocaine imports estimated to be up to £23.4m, and cannabis imports worth about £6.4m. Daniel Kinahan's lawyer previously told BBC Panorama that he has no criminal record or convictions and allegations about him being a crime boss are false and have no evidential basis. Kinahan: The True Story of Ireland’s Mafia Watch on iPlayer The story of the chilling rise of the Kinahan cartel - from small-time street-dealing gang in 1980s Dublin to one of the world's most feared crime organisations. Related topics United Arab Emirates Dubai Republic of Ireland Organised crime More on this story Encrypted texts key evidence against 'senior lieutenant' in Kinahan gang, court hears Published 27 April Kinahan: The true story of Ireland's mafia Published 31 March 2025 Senior member of Kinahan crime group sentenced to 24 years in prison Published 8 June The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:38 Wildfire raging in Canada's British Columbia. 00:00:38, play video Wildfire raging in Canada's British Columbia 1:02 What we know about Russian attack that killed child near Kyiv. 00:01:02, play video What we know about Russian attack that killed child near Kyiv 0:28 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update. 00:00:28, play video 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update 0:34 Timelapse shows mass balloon ascent in Bristol. 00:00:34, play video Timelapse shows mass balloon ascent in Bristol 1:17 The tech that could map every tree on earth. 00:01:17, play video The tech that could map every tree on earth 0:59 Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 00:00:59, play video Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 1:07 Riding England's longest zip wire. 00:01:07, play video Riding England's longest zip wire 1:21 How many different cubes can you make? 00:01:21, play video How many different cubes can you make? 2:01 Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape. 00:02:01, play video Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape 1:02 Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter. 00:01:02, play video Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter 1:17 What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:17, play video What we know about the Thailand school shooting 0:48 Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 00:00:48, play video Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 0:53 Are you hung up on hangers? 00:00:53, play video Are you hung up on hangers? 0:52 Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 00:00:52, play video Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 0:31 The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 00:00:31, play video The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 0:43 Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan. 00:00:43, play video Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan 0:33 Moment raiders drive car into service station. 00:00:33, play video Moment raiders drive car into service station 1:11 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 00:01:11, play video 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 0:39 How much rain will end the drought? 00:00:39, play video How much rain will end the drought? Top stories Simon Levy victims urged to come forward as police accused of 'litany of failures' Published 10 hours ago Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands Published 15 hours ago The phone book that led us to Assad's spy chief in hiding Published 22 hours ago More to explore I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock Pokémon hobby takes brothers to world championships 'We had to flee with just my daughter's clothes and dolls' Obesity rates have doubled in England since 1993 - what's going on? The 101-year-old who created a dolls' house museum with her childhood toys Artist's 'anger and frustration' with internet copycats The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC With great power comes great responsibility She's not a bad girl anymore, wink wink wink wink Can a test tell you what's living inside your gut? How much discipline is too much in school? Most read 1 Strictly dancers Ola and James Jordan separate after 23 years of marriage 2 Hormuz talks positive, Oman says, as Iran warns deal would not open strait 3 I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock 4 He's been frozen on Everest for 30 years, now 'Green Boots' may finally be coming home 5 Sturgeon hasn't spoken to Murrell since he was jailed for embezzling SNP funds 6 Digital cameras and wired earphones are back - and 'a bit more real' 7 Madonna pays tribute to 'genius, otherworldly' producer William Orbit 8 Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands 9 Simon Levy victims urged to come forward as police accused of 'litany of failures' 10 How a former GB Olympian curbed his porn problem - and the signs and steps to recovery BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.