Glen Hansard: 'It's just a loss to Ireland' - Fans pay tribute at public wake - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat World Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East 'It's just a loss to Ireland': Fans pay tribute to Glen Hansard at public wake Image caption, Ronan and Rebecca Buckley with their children Leah and Lily By Gabija Gataveckaite Dublin correspondent, BBC News NI Published 3 August 2026 More than 11,000 people have attended a public wake in Dublin for the Irish singer and songwriter Glen Hansard ahead of his funeral on Tuesday. The Oscar winning musician died in a single vehicle motorbike crash last week. The wake took place in the Baroque Chapel at the Irish Museum of Modern Art (IMMA) in Kilmainham, Dublin from 11:00 to 16:00 local time. Trad musicians played under the stained glass window in the chapel, where Hansard's wicker coffin was laid on a table adorned with greenery and apples. Two of his guitars were at the foot of the coffin, which some mourners laid their hands on as they passed. Others left flowers, cards and notes as a tribute to him. A queue of hundreds of people who came to pay their respects snaked around the venue on Monday morning. Among those paying their respects was Hansard's former partner and collaborator Markéta Irglová. Image source, RTÉ Image caption, Markéta Irglová (left) won the Oscar for Best Original Song with Glen Hansard in 2008 DJ Sinead Ni Mhorda, who was among the first in line on Monday, said Hansard had "a raw talent that is joyous and all-consuming and life-changing". "He's done so much for Irish music. He really was a trailblazer for a lot of singer-songwriters, he brought people under his wing," she told the Press Association. "He had such a generous spirit." Singer songwriter Zoe Hayter met Hansard when she was 10 years old. "I never, ever thought someone could change your life in the best way possible," she said. "The whole world is crying, and there'll never be anyone like that, and I'll never stop loving him and I know no-one else will." Ronan Buckley, who was joined by his wife Rebecca and their two children, Leah and Lily, had been to many of the musician's concerts. He told BBC News NI that Hansard's outlook on life was "brilliant". "We felt we had to be here. "We have the kids here today and they're also fans through us." "It's just a massive loss to Ireland," added Rebecca. Image caption, Danni Rohde and her mum Miriam Rohde Joyce Danni Rohde is a big fan of Hansard's band, The Frames, and has been to about 50 of their concerts, including one of his final performances on 3 July in Trinity College Dublin. "It's just such a big part of my late teens, early 20s," she told BBC News NI. "That whole part of my life is just tied to Frames gigs, when they were playing more or less every weekend. "It doesn't really feel real." Her mother Miriam Rohde Joyce said they wanted to come to pay their respects. Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Glen Hansard died last week Chris James said he saw Hansard busking for the first time 25 years ago in Dublin's Grafton Street. He was near the top of the queue and said he had been waiting about half an hour. "I thought it one of the most coolest things I'd ever seen and one of the reasons I picked up and started playing guitar. I met him a couple of times. "Just a lovely fellow, totally unassuming, wanted the best for everybody, knew that there was an awful lot of hardship around and instead of giving out about it, he just wanted to bring people together." Image caption, Chris James waiting in the queue When is Glen Hansard's funeral? Hansard's funeral is due to take place in St Patrick's Cathedral on Tuesday in central Dublin at 13:30 local time. The news of his sudden death shocked the music world and fans alike, with tributes being paid from the likes of Ed Sheeran and Bruce Springsteen, who said he was "heartbroken". Hansard had a storied career in music across more than three decades, including winning the Academy Award for Best Original Song in 2008 with Marketa Irglova, which featured in the low-budget musical romance film Once. He and Irglova released three albums as The Swell Season, while Hansard also encountered success as a solo artist with 2016 album Didn't He Ramble being nominated for a Grammy in 2016. Related topics Republic of Ireland Dublin More on this story Oscar-winning songwriter Glen Hansard killed in crash Published 29 July Glen Hansard: A life in song and stories Published 30 July Public wake to be held for musician Glen Hansard Published 31 July The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:34 Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents. 00:00:34, play video Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents 1:05 What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident. 00:01:05, play video What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident 0:29 How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 00:00:29, play video How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 1:27 Are older and younger generations in conflict? 00:01:27, play video Are older and younger generations in conflict? 1:18 Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 00:01:18, play video Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 0:48 Model's photos used to catfish women. 00:00:48, play video Model's photos used to catfish women 1:29 The inventor who refused to take no for an answer. 00:01:29, play video The inventor who refused to take no for an answer 1:07 How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 00:01:07, play video How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 1:01 E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths. 00:01:01, play video E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths 1:07 NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England. 00:01:07, play video NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England 0:52 Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion. 00:00:52, play video Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion 0:59 Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation. 00:00:59, play video Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation 0:35 Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend. 00:00:35, play video Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend 1:25 Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings. 00:01:25, play video Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings 0:55 Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 00:00:55, play video Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 0:48 Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances. 00:00:48, play video Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances 1:16 GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview. 00:01:16, play video GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview 1:07 What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 00:01:07, play video What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 0:58 '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 00:00:58, play video '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 0:29 Where does salmonella get its name? 00:00:29, play video Where does salmonella get its name? Top stories Live . Rescue efforts enter fifth day on Nepal-Tibet border with more than 2,400 missing after flash flood 1173 viewing 1.2k viewing At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot Published 3 hours ago Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor Published 7 hours ago More to explore Dolly Parton's dad couldn't read - it inspired her to send books to millions of children Sweetcorn ice creams and pastries: The latest 'swavoury' trend taking over your feed How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works We helped create UK emergency alert system - but question how government is using it Hypermobility - the little-known 'bendy disease' that causes pain and fatigue Strong winds and thunderstorms kick off the bank holiday weekend 'I thought diet clubs weren't for men' Embroidery on display as town celebrates conqueror Royal Watch: Get the latest royal stories and analysis with Sean Coughlan’s weekly newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Low-key noughties sitcom starring Robert Webb and Paula Wilcox Keith Richards recalls how he wrote the iconic 'Satisfaction' An unlikely gang set out to catch a killer who shattered rural peace Did Emily ruin Paris? Most read 1 Rescue to continue overnight for 'in distress' vessel carrying five in the Channel 2 Sarah Ferguson expected back in the UK 'shortly', source says 3 Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor 4 I've been to Gamescom six times - here's what excited me this year 5 'Healey eyes banks and oil tax' and 'X Factor comeback' 6 Norway's new king remembers 'my dear father' in first speech 7 How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works 8 They fell in love - then had to check they weren't brother and sister 9 Man dies after train hits van on crossing 10 At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.