Mitch McConnell says he's been discharged from rehab, nearly 2 months after hospitalization - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Politics Mitch McConnell says he's been discharged from rehab, nearly 2 months after hospitalization By Caitlin Yilek Caitlin Yilek Politics Reporter Caitlin Yilek is a politics reporter at CBSNews.com, based in Washington, D.C. She previously worked for the Washington Examiner and The Hill, and was a member of the 2022 Paul Miller Washington Reporting Fellowship with the National Press Foundation. Read Full Bio Caitlin Yilek Updated on: August 6, 2026 / 4:44 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Washington — Republican Sen. Mitch McConnell of Kentucky said Thursday that he has been discharged from a rehabilitation center, nearly two months after he was hospitalized. "Earlier today, I was discharged from the rehabilitation center to continue my recovery at home," he said in a statement. The statement did not say when McConnell is expected to return to Capitol Hill. "On the advice of my doctors, I'll maintain an intensive regimen of physical therapy from home during the state work period, and I'll continue to engage with my staff and colleagues on important Senate business," he said. McConnell was hospitalized on June 14 . McConnell and his staff said little about his health for nearly a month after he was admitted to the hospital, sparking speculation about his condition. In a statement on July 12, McConnell said a fall led to his hospitalization and he had been moved to a rehab center. "My doctors have confirmed that I didn't break any bones or suffer a concussion. I didn't have a heart attack or a stroke. I don't have any tumors or hemorrhages. But I was briefly unconscious and was taken to the hospital. While receiving excellent care over the past several weeks, I've also had to deal with a mild case of pneumonia," he said at the time. A statement from the Office of the Attending Physician added that McConnell sustained "minor injuries," but the senator "had no fractures, cardiac abnormalities, stroke, tumor, or hemorrhage." Another statement from the attending physician's office on July 27 said McConnell was maintaining a "strenuous course" of physical therapy to reduce his risk of falls. "His bout with childhood polio continues to be a significant factor in his mobility," the statement said. More from CBS News What Fauci has said about COVID origins, gain-of-function research Tennessee voters to choose gubernatorial nominees, and more races to watch today House Ethics probing Rep. Max Miller for alleged domestic violence, drug use Democratic Rep. Gluesenkamp Perez and Trump-backed Republican advance in Washington primary Go deeper with The Free Press The ‘Gay’ Attacks on Lindsey Graham Are All About Politics Joe Klein: At 80, Here’s What I’ve Learned About Politics—and Life © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. McConnell says he's been discharged from rehab Sen. Mitch McConnell says he's been discharged from rehab 02:06 Sen. Mitch McConnell says he's been discharged from rehab (02:06) What Fauci has said about COVID origins, gain-of-function research Tennessee voters to choose gubernatorial nominees, and more races to watch today House Ethics probing Rep. Max Miller for alleged domestic violence, drug use The ‘Gay’ Attacks on Lindsey Graham Are All About Politics Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue