Wildland firefighter deaths put crews on edge as they battle blazes in multiple states : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Wildland firefighter deaths put crews on edge as they battle blazes in multiple states Deaths and close calls while fighting wildfires have strained an already on-edge workforce. They've also raised questions about policies and priorities amid an intense wildfire season. National When tragedy strikes, America's wildland firefighters ask, was it 'somebody that we loved?' August 7, 2026 5:00 AM ET By Murphy Woodhouse A captain with the Clifton Fire Protection District salutes the passing procession carrying the bodies of three firefighters killed while fighting the Snyder Fire in Grand Junction, Colo., on June 28. Gretel Daugherty via AP hide caption toggle caption Gretel Daugherty via AP An initial report on the deaths of three wildland firefighters in late June sheds light on the extreme and dangerous conditions they faced. On June 27, members of the Rifle Interagency Helitack Crew spent the morning working on two fires burning in rugged red rock country on the Colorado-Utah border. They were part of a specialized team that uses helicopters to respond to blazes, often rappelling down to the fireline. Winds gusting beyond 50 miles per hour at times howled over bone-dry fuels itching to ignite. Shortly after 12:30 p.m., a new blaze "exhibiting extreme fire behavior" was spotted, according to the report. Just before 3 p.m., the crew reported flames near their location. Ten minutes later, a helicopter was en route to rescue them. Sponsor Message But thick, blowing smoke had reduced visibility to almost zero. The helicopter pilot couldn't land. Somewhere in the smoke below – at 3:19 p.m. – five firefighters did what every wildland firefighter trains to do: they deployed and scrambled under their fire shelters , bivouac-like sacks with an aluminum outer layer that reflects radiant heat – giving them a fighting chance in otherwise unsurvivable conditions. Three of them died on the scene. Two were evacuated with serious burn injuries. And on July 24, one of them died from those injuries. Their deaths came amid an intense, destructive wildfire season fueled by historically low snowpacks and a record-shattering spring heat wave – worsened by human-caused climate change. In the wildfire community, it has also raised hard questions about policies and priorities. A tight-knit community mourns Friends, family and colleagues gathered in nearby Grand Junction, Colorado on July 5 to honor the dead. Helitack Squad Leader Emily Barker, 38. Crew member Nicholas Hutcherson, 27. Crew member Sydney Watson, 27. U.S. Wildland Fire Service Chief Brian Fennessy praised the trio for their commitment to public service. Hutcherson was an active member of the Northern Arizona Deaf and American Sign Language community, he shared. Watson was an enthusiastic solo backpacker who wanted to see more women on the male-dominated fireline. Barker was a beloved part of the Vail, Colorado women's hockey scene, and played defense for the Down Valley Divas. The body of a firefighter who died battling wildfires near the Colorado-Utah border is carried during a procession in Grand Junction, Colo., on June 29. Ty O'Neil/AP hide caption toggle caption Ty O'Neil/AP "[They] represent the very best the wildland fire community has to offer," he said at the memorial, adding that they embodied the "unique spirit" of those drawn to public lands work. Sponsor Message "You must love wild places, and not just the beauty, but the challenge," Fennessy said. "You must be willing to travel and live in places you've never even been to. You must love the uncertainty each day and the unpredictability of the work. And yes, even embracing the chaos along the way. You must love the camaraderie of being part of a team that becomes family." He said he was praying for the two firefighters who survived with serious injuries. Nathan Matthews – one of those injured firefighters – died July 24, raising the death toll to four. In July, helicopter pilot Nicholas Dale was also killed in Colorado, and other firefighters have been burned in Washington, Oregon and California. "It wasn't like, 'Oh my gosh, I can't believe these people were killed,'" Andy Jones – part of a U.S. Forest Service helitack crew based in northern Utah – told NPR in July. "It was almost kind of like I knew this was going to happen." The extreme pre-season conditions and early summer fire behavior he saw flying over Utah's rampaging, early season blazes fed his premonition. News of the June deaths quickly spread through the wildfire community. Jones didn't know any of those killed or injured, but in the early hours there's no telling. "It was a huge gut punch, because the fire world is small," he explained. "But then the aviation community is like an even smaller microcosm of that." Jones said he started getting texts from fellow firefighters. "Like, 'Hey, you're going to hear something soon. I'm OK,'" he recounted, his voice breaking. Longtime fire veteran Riva Duncan was also on the phone after getting the terrible news, checking in on friends and colleagues. In the wake of regular workplace deaths and serious injuries during any given fire season, Duncan said she and many in the tight-knit profession are gripped by a common dread: "We're trying to figure out if we knew them. We're trying to figure out if it's somebody that we loved." Sponsor Message A profession on edge Like Jones and many other firefighters, Duncan – now the president of the advocacy group Grassroots Wildland Firefighters – has been on edge about this fire season. The reason, Duncan explains, isn't just because of the extreme weather. She said there have also been big, distracting changes, including the creation of the U.S. Wildland Fire Service in January. "That always worries me as a fire manager because I don't want firefighters distracted," she said. The new Fire Service is under the Interior Department, while the Forest Service is part of the Department of Agriculture. Both parent agencies gave direction to quickly put out all blazes this season. But Interior Secretary Doug Burgum went further, saying that the "default" should be working right on the edge of fires to halt them – known as direct attack. That bothered Duncan, because direct attack can be dangerous in extreme fire conditions. She explained that some situations call for firefighters to battle flames from a safer distance – what's known as indirect attack. This Forest Service video provides a clear overview of the two approaches. "When I was a forest fire chief or forest duty officer, I'm not telling the firefighters on the ground if they should go direct or indirect," Duncan said. "That is the decision of the incident commander on the ground, and that is a level of micromanagement that is really concerning." In an email response to NPR, Fire Service Chief Brian Fennessy said: "There exists no pressure by fire leadership to pre-determine the fire attack strategy." Echoing Duncan, he said "whether to use a direct or indirect attack strategy should be the decision of the incident commander on the ground," and they are trusted and empowered by Interior leadership to make those decisions. He also defended direct attack as an effective way to keep firefighters and communities safe, and to avoid "long-term risk to firefighters and the public from large, long-duration wildfires that were not stopped quickly." Sponsor Message A risky environment Former Forest Service fire scientist Dave Calkin calls the circumstances of the late June tragedy very concerning. "The thing that really hurt me the most was the apparent lack of values that they were protecting, and the reality of how risky that environment is," he said, citing the high winds, inaccessibility and reliance on helicopters for getting firefighters to safety. "When confronted with extreme conditions," Calkin said, taking the "safest option possible" is the right strategy. "And that safest option is to fall back and wait for better conditions or better locations." The Snyder Fire burns near Thompson Springs, Utah, on June 28. Noah Berger/AP hide caption toggle caption Noah Berger/AP Chief Fennessy pushed back on Calkin's characterization, noting the fires were near the Colorado cities of Fruita and Grand Junction, as well as a heavily used recreation area. The several wildfires burning in and near the Black Ridge Canyons Wilderness on June 27 merged into the ultimately 30,000-acre Snyder Fire, which forced hundreds of campers and boaters to evacuate and threatened the unincorporated town of Glade Park. It took hundreds of firefighters and some $15 million to control it. "The impact this wildfire had despite early interagency suppression efforts speaks to the extreme risk that would have been posed by a less aggressive initial response," Fennessy said. 'The only chance we have' For Andy Jones, with the Utah helitack crew, he's focused on keeping his people safe as fire activity increases across the country. Part of that is asking tough questions of fireline decisions. "Why are we doing this? Is there something actually at risk here that this tradeoff becomes a little more worth it? Or are we just stopping a few more trees from burning?" he said. "I'm not going to risk getting somebody killed just so we can say that, 'Oh, yeah, we saved a few trees. Cool.'" Jones said the public also has a role to play in keeping firefighters safe this extreme season, and seasons to come. Their handwritten signs thanking firefighters are welcome, he said, but "the best way to show their appreciation is to recreate safely in the woods," also citing firework and firearm safety. Sponsor Message One of the most important ways to keep firefighters safe, Jones said, is to increase the scale of prescribed fire – the intentional setting of controlled blazes to reduce fire threats and improve ecosystems. Such burning can significantly reduce the intensity and destructiveness of wildfires, many fire professionals and researchers agree . Fennessy also said prescribed fire and other hazardous fuel reduction practices are a "top priority" for his agency. "We have to use fire, we have to use large scale fire," Jones said. "That's the only chance we have." The federal investigation, meanwhile, into the deaths of the Rifle Interagency Helitack Crew members in late June continues. Colorado's Democratic U.S. Sen. John Hickenlooper called for it to be "swift and thorough" on the Senate floor last week. "We can't afford to wait months and months to learn lessons that could save lives right now," he said. The U.S. Forest Service said in a statement that the agency "has expanded mental health resources, peer support, rest periods, and crisis‑response teams to support firefighters during a demanding season" and that "safety remains our highest priority." firefighters wildfires fire season Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Trump's Terms Trump's third check-up at Walter Reed raises more questions about his health : Trump's Terms Asia Student shoots multiple people at a high school in Thailand, authorities say Iran aims to ban U.S. and Israeli ships from Strait of Hormuz and charge others a toll Politics The park service says Trump's arch would obstruct historic sites. Could it be moved? Family Amid cost of living stress, many parents are supporting children well into adulthood National 3 firefighters killed on Colorado-Utah border as wildfires intensify More Stories From NPR Family Amid cost of living stress, many parents are supporting children well into adulthood The NPR news quiz Who or what is 'taking a step back from visibility'? The quiz knows Sources & Methods Did Iran hack U.S. water systems? / Cyberwarfare abroad / Ukraine’s air defense gap National Trump signs 2 immigration actions to curb 'birth tourism,' limit birthright citizenship Politics The park service says Trump's arch would obstruct historic sites. Could it be moved? Education Trump administration moves to deregulate Head Start, opening door for sweeping change Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Middle East conflict Iran aims to ban U.S. and Israeli ships from Strait of Hormuz and charge others a toll Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after The Ripple Effect Why Andy Cohen is a Deadhead for life Politics Senate Homeland Security committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress The Indicator from Planet Money How ending TPS is squeezing workers, businesses and (soon) consumers It's Been a Minute The questionable new ways to surveil your friends NPR Editors' Picks Africa Besieged Sudanese city faces relentless drone strikes and risk of mass atrocities, U.N. warns Asia Student kills at least 6 in a shooting at a high school in Thailand, authorities say Technology Court orders Instagram and Facebook's Meta to pay $567M to address kids' mental health online Research News Sticky or slippery? Snails can change their slime to meet the moment Author Interviews Death is everywhere in the desert — it's where Claire Vaye Watkins feels most alive Sports European nations say World Cup boycott is still on, keeping FIFA's Infantino in limbo Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices