Yen rally fades after intervention as focus shifts to policy Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Markets Yen rally fades a week after U.S.-Japan intervention as focus shifts to policy Published Fri, Aug 7 2026 5:18 AM EDT Joseph Wilkins WATCH LIVE Key Points The yen weakening, even after joint U.S.-Japan intervention last week. Its fundamentals remain under scrutiny, with market watchers now turning their eye to domestic policy changes. In this article JPY= Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT One week after the joint U.S.-Japan intervention to support the country's embattled yen , an initial rally appears to be waning as the currency drifts lower. The coordinated involvement from the Treasury and BoJ had initially lifted the yen as high as 155 to the dollar, down from just above 163 beforehand. But since then, it has wavered, giving up almost half of those gains to settle around 158.50 to the dollar, seven days after the move was announced on July 31. The yen's fundamentals remain under scrutiny, with market watchers now turning their eye to domestic policy changes rather than government-backed support measures. How the yen has performed against the dollar since the day before the joint intervention. Robert Sockin, chief U.S. economist at PGIM, is "not convinced" the strategy will work, writing in a note published Wednesday. "Yes, the intervention is no doubt squeezing out short yen positions in the short term, but I'm skeptical that it will work in reversing the JPY weakness trend by itself…and it may backfire spectacularly," he wrote. Should it backfire, Sockin added that speculators might amplify the reversal by aggressively selling yen and Treasurys together to force the BoJ and Fed into precautionary rate hikes. The coordinated intervention is a rare U.S. effort to support another major currency and underscored Washington's concern that prolonged yen weakness could fuel inflation in Japan , pressure other Asian currencies and destabilize global markets. watch now VIDEO 6:54 06:54 Treasury Sec. Bessent: A stable yen is important not only for the U.S., but for the entire region Squawk Box BofA said in a recent note that the objective of the central banks in the short-term is to break ¥155, but that level was touched only briefly before moving lower again. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent acknowledge d in an interview with CNBC last week that intervention alone would not determine the currency's direction. "You can give market signals with intervention, but it's policy that turns it," he said, adding that the U.S. participated because it was optimistic about Japan's policy path. — CNBC's Luke Fountain also contributed to this report. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by