Celtic boss Martin O'Neill in hospital after 'small procedure' - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Celtic Scores & Fixtures Table Scottish Football Celtic boss O'Neill in hospital after 'small procedure' Image source, SNS Image caption, Martin O'Neill was in the dugout for Celtic's 1-0 Premiership win over Dundee on Monday By George O'Neill BBC Sport Scotland Published 6 hours ago Celtic manager Martin O'Neill remains in hospital after undergoing a "small procedure", the club have announced. There are no details about the nature of O'Neill's operation, with the 74-year-old expected to be released in the "next day or two". O'Neill signed a one-year deal in June to become permanent manager after two interim spells last season culminated in a Scottish Premiership and Scottish Cup double. The Northern Irishman was in the dugout on Monday as Celtic started the new Premiership campaign with a 1-0 home win over Dundee. "In response to speculation, we can confirm that Martin O'Neill has undergone a small procedure in hospital," Celtic posted on social media. "We would envisage Martin being released from hospital in the next day or two and on behalf of Martin, we would like to thank supporters for their kind wishes. "We would ask that the privacy of Martin and his family is respected." Having not managed since a spell with Nottingham Forest in 2019, O'Neill made a shock return to Celtic last October - 20 years after his hugely successful first spell in charge - following Brendan Rodgers' acrimonious resignation . The former Leicester City, Aston Villa and Republic of Ireland boss then handed the reins to Wilfried Nancy in December, but the Frenchman was sacked after just eight games , paving the way for O'Neill to return again. And after winning his eighth and ninth major honours with the club, he agreed to take on the job full-time, agreeing a one-year contract with the option for a further year after talks with Celtic's major shareholder Dermot Desmond. Related topics Football Scottish Football Scottish Premiership Celtic More on this story Visit our Celtic page for all the latest news, analysis and fan views Get Celtic news notifications in the BBC Sport app Published 18 June 2023 Shorts Previous Next 0:46 Chelsea's16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli. 00:00:46, play video Chelsea's16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli 1:15 How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? 00:01:15, play video How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? 0:36 Salah mobbed by fans on arrival for Trabzonspor move. 00:00:36, play video Salah mobbed by fans on arrival for Trabzonspor move 0:38 What is the 'Bra-gate' controversy in cycling? 00:00:38, play video What is the 'Bra-gate' controversy in cycling? 0:30 Wilkinson's Welsh language progress. 00:00:30, play video Wilkinson's Welsh language progress 1:00 What has happened to Kulusevski? 00:01:00, play video What has happened to Kulusevski? 0:23 Why Monga chose Man City over Arsenal. 00:00:23, play video Why Monga chose Man City over Arsenal 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:50 Goodburn to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea. 00:00:50, play video Goodburn to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea Top stories Newcastle appoint Jaissle - what should fans expect? Published 2 hours ago Real Madrid make Vinicius Jr improved contract offer Published 3 hours ago Mudryk returns after 20 months out in Chelsea defeat Elsewhere on the BBC Superman 1978: The classic superhero blockbuster What did we learn from D4vd's preliminary hearing? Follow police investigations from the 999 call to conviction Undressing the hidden history of underwear Elsewhere in Scottish sport How Scotland reached the World Cup - told by those who made it happen Scotland men's internationals to be shown live on BBC How Team GB is leading the way in curling's arms race How McTominay became a Napoli icon after Man Utd exit Why is it so special to be part of Team Scotland? Elsewhere in Sport Why Liverpool are ready to make Barcola third £100m signing What happens next with Rashford and Man Utd? Why £1m-a-season deal will be hard for Pollock and Hearn to find A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season Runs and records galore as Sunrisers beat Spirit. Video Runs and records galore as Sunrisers beat Spirit Why we are still waiting for the 'Newey effect' - F1 Q&A Meet the £1m-rated non-league star Abdulmalik The summer that changed Welsh football The ex-sandwich maker who cycles to Champions League games Inside Liverpool's summer so far - should fans be worried? How Mumbai Indians takeover has affected MI London & Surrey From European hopes to relegation form - will Moyes reignite Everton? 'No guarantees' - joyful Glasgow cannot banish all Commonwealth doubts Finucane 'screaming inside' after record-breaking Games Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.