Senate confirms Todd Blanche as attorney general after weeks of uncertainty IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Meet the Press U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Meet the Press U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Justice Department Senate confirms Todd Blanche as attorney general after weeks of uncertainty Senators from both parties had expressed concerns about Blanche’s role in President Donald Trump’s controversial IRS settlement deal and his prior work as the president’s personal lawyer. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Todd Blanche in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee on July 15. Jack Gruber / USA Today Network via Reuters file Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 8, 2026, 4:33 AM EDT / Updated Aug. 8, 2026, 7:46 AM EDT By Ryan J. Reilly , Frank Thorp V and Brennan Leach The Senate confirmed Todd Blanche as U.S. attorney general early Saturday in a mostly party-line vote, capping off weeks of uncertainty and despite bipartisan concerns about his ability to run a Justice Department independent of President Donald Trump’s impulses. Blanche, who was formerly Trump’s personal attorney, was confirmed by a vote of 50-49, with only two Republican senators, Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, voting against him along with all Democrats. The vote was held after 4 a.m. on Saturday, as a late-night session ran over into the early hours ahead of a planned Senate recess. “I am deeply honored by the trust and confidence President Trump has placed in me to lead the Department of Justice as our great nation’s 88th Attorney General,” Blanche said in a post on X, adding: “I am grateful to the Senate for staying late to complete this process.” His confirmation had been in jeopardy, largely over concerns about his handling of the so-called anti-weaponization fund, which was established in connection with a purported settlement between private citizen Trump and the federal government he now controls. That fund could have been used to give money to Trump allies who claimed they were victims of government overreach, including people who were charged in connection with the Jan. 6, 2021, Capitol attack. Blanche had also signed off on another part of the deal that gave Trump, his family members and his businesses immunity from tax audits. Earlier Republican holdouts, Sens. Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, John Cornyn of Texas and Thom Tillis of North Carolina, ultimately backed Blanche after receiving various assurances from the nominee, including an order rescinding the $1.8 billion anti-weaponization fund. (A legal loophole could still revive the fund , however.) Lawmakers from both parties had also expressed discomfort about Blanche’s personal history with the president. “The problem with confirming Todd Blanche is that he has never been able to shed his role as criminal defense lawyer for Donald Trump. He just can’t do it,” Sen. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., said ahead of the Senate Judiciary Committee’s vote advancing Blanche’s nomination. “He will never do what’s best for the American people. He will only do what’s best for Donald Trump, and you cannot leave someone like that as the nation’s No. 1 law enforcement official.” Blanche took over as acting attorney general in April after Trump forced out his predecessor , Pam Bondi. Trump had become frustrated with Bondi over the lack of action from the DOJ against his political foes. Blanche told NBC News in April, after he took over the Justice Department in an acting capacity, that Americans should be “ happy ” with Trump’s involvement in the Justice Department’s operations. Weeks after Bondi’s dismissal, the Justice Department indicted former FBI Director James Comey, who is accused of threatening the president’s life by posting a photo of seashells in the shape of “8647” to Instagram. Critics have questioned whether Blanche will stand up to Trump’s future desires to target his political enemies. “The biggest concern is whether he is now going to be emboldened to go even more gung-ho on Trump’s campaign of using the Justice Department for retribution,” former federal prosecutor Laurie Levenson told NBC News in an interview prior to his confirmation. “There are no guardrails.” Trump’s attorneys general in his first term also departed under pressure to act on the president’s behalf. Jeff Sessions was forced out after the 2018 midterms in part due Trump’s frustration with his recusal from the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election, an investigation that led to the Mueller report. Former Attorney General William Barr left after Trump tried to enlist the Justice Department in his efforts to overturn his 2020 election loss, a campaign that culminated in the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol. Share Add NBC News to Google Ryan J. Reilly Ryan J. Reilly is a justice reporter for NBC News. Frank Thorp V Frank Thorp V is a coordinating producer and off-air reporter covering Congress for NBC News, managing coverage of the Senate. Brennan Leach Brennan Leach is an associate producer for NBC News covering the Senate. About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC