Virginia governor to intervene in NextEra, Dominion merger Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Energy Virginia governor to intervene in NextEra, Dominion merger over electricity price concerns Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 4:50 PM EDT Spencer Kimball @spencekimball WATCH LIVE Key Points Virginia Gov. Abigail Spanberger said she will intervene in NextEra's acquisition of Dominion Energy, which would create the largest regulated utility in the world. Dominion is the utility responsible for the largest data center market in the world in northern Virginia. Spanberger campaigned on lowering electricity prices as voters increasingly blame data centers for rising utility bills. In this article NEE D Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Gov. Abigail Spanberger speaks after signing a ceremonial bill at Highland Springs High School in Richmond, Va., Monday, May 18, 2026. Mike Kropf | Richmond Times-Dispatch | Lee Newspapers | Getty Images Virginia Gov. Abigail Spanberger said Thursday she will intervene in the huge merger of NextEra and Dominion Energy , an unprecedented move at time when voters are angry over rising utility bills . "As a Virginian, I am deeply skeptical about whether selling our primary, state-regulated utility to an out-of-state company is good for the commonwealth," Spanberger said in an opinion piece published in The Washington Post . "I have serious questions about what this deal would mean for us." Florida-headquartered NextEra agreed in May to buy Dominion in a deal valued at nearly $67 billion that would create the largest regulated electric utility in the world. Dominion is the utility responsible for powering the largest data center market in the world in northern Virginia. Spanberger won the 2025 gubernatorial election in part on a promise to address voters' concerns that data centers are contributing to higher electricity costs. watch now VIDEO 8:52 08:52 NextEra Energy CEO John Ketchum on Dominion merger: This deal is all about affordability and scale Squawk Box Virginia's State Corporation Commission is tasked with reviewing the deal and will either accept, reject or impose conditions on it. Spanberger's intervention in the case is the first time a governor has taken such action before the commission, her office said in a statement. "If two large corporations stand to benefit financially from this merger, so, too, should the Virginians who pay the bills," Spanberger said. "That is why any potential deal must deliver a more affordable energy bill with sustained, long-term energy cost savings." Spanberger said her intervention will allow the governor's office to raise concerns with the commission, request information, and lay out what benefits residents expect from the deal. NextEra shares closed more than 1% lower Thursday while Dominion stock fell more than 2%. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by