World Bank estimates Venezuela quakes caused $19.6 bn in damage Skip to main content Homepage News Science & Technology Business Culture Sports Environment Podcasts en Français English Español Português Português do Brasil Hausa Kiswahili Mandenkan Fulfulde România Русский Українською Tiếng Việt 华语 華語 ភាសាខ្មែរ فارسی Settings Manage my privacy settings Menu Homepage News Science & Technology Business Culture Sports Environment Podcasts Menu Close World Cup 2026 Podcasts International report Spotlight on France Spotlight on Africa Videos Sections Science & Technology Business Culture Sports Environment Sponsored contents Learn French By region France Africa International Previous Next France Africa International Culture Sports Science & technology Environment Back to homepage / Live news World Bank estimates Venezuela quakes caused $19.6 bn in damage Washington (United States) (AFP) – Twin earthquakes that devastated Venezuela last month caused at least $19.6 billion in direct physical damage, the World Bank said in an estimate Thursday, stressing the need for a rapid increase in public reconstruction funding to avoid lasting economic effects. Issued on: 23/07/2026 - 16:06 2 min Reading time People search for bodies amid the rubble of a building in Caraballeda, Venezuela, on July 22, 2026 © Juan BARRETO / AFP Advertising Read more At least 5,398 people were killed in the June 24 earthquakes, with hundreds of buildings destroyed, particularly in the hardest-hit state of La Guaira in the country's coastal north. At least 16,740 people were injured, and unofficial estimates put the number still missing in the thousands. The United Nations estimates more than a million people are in need of immediate humanitarian aid. The World Bank's assessment focused only on damage to buildings and infrastructure. Direct damage to residential buildings came in at almost half of the assessed total at $9.3 billion. Non-residential buildings suffered $5 billion in damage and infrastructure faced $5.2 billion in losses, with dozens of hospitals and hundreds of schools badly damaged. An early UN damage assessment, released about a week after the quakes, estimated direct physical damage from the disaster was far higher, putting it at $37 billion. La Guaira and the district encompassing the capital Caracas were the hardest hit, accounting for roughly half of all damage, according to the World Bank. In La Guaira, the Bank estimated one in five homes was destroyed. The pace of reconstruction will "be a decisive factor in shaping the country's economic recovery and social outcomes," the World Bank said in a statement. Current levels of private and public investment would see reconstruction take more than a decade, it said, calling for Caracas to rapidly increase public funding. The World Bank's assessment of reconstruction costs comes to roughly 18 percent of the country's current GDP, according to International Monetary Fund (IMF) data. Oil-rich Venezuela has struggled for years with widespread poverty due to economic mismanagement and intense pressure from the United States and its allies. That pressure has eased since Washington deposed then-president Nicolas Maduro in a military operation in January, but the government's economic needs to address the crisis remain significant. Washington has taken control of Venezuela's oil revenues, but it remains unclear how those funds are being used. US President Donald Trump has boasted that his country is "making a lot of money" from Venezuelan oil since he ordered the operation that removed Maduro from power. The World Bank and IMF have restored contacts with the Venezuelan government since that ouster, and the Fund has so far provided around $346 million from the country's reserves with the multilateral lender. "The earthquakes have disrupted lives, damaged critical infrastructure, and created new challenges for Venezuela's recovery," said Susana Cordeiro Guerra, World Bank Vice President for Latin America and the Caribbean. She added that the World Bank would support recovery efforts "every step of the way." A month after the earthquakes, search efforts continue for victims whose remains might be buried underneath rubble, but operations have evolved to focus on post-earthquake humanitarian aid and rebuilding. Earlier this month, the United Nations launched an urgent appeal for nearly $300 million to provide aid to 1.3 million people. Venezuela's interim president Delcy Rodriguez has pledged to deliver 4,000 homes by year's end to those displaced by the earthquakes, including an estimated 23,000 who are now homeless. © 2026 AFP Share : Happening now France French politics United States World Cup 2026 Marine Le Pen International United States France United Kingdom India Canada South Africa About RFI Who we are? Ethics and transparency Contact us Become a partner radio Report a problem with our content Report a technical issue Content licensing Work with us France Medias Monde sites Learn French RFI Instrumental France 24 MCD InfoMigrants ENTR ZOA CFI Académie France Médias Monde Services How to listen to RFI? Apps Download RFI on smartphones and tablets RFI France 24 مونت كارلو الدولية / MCD France Médias Monde Legal notice Accessibility: partially compliant Privacy Cookies Manage my privacy settings Notifications Facebook Bluesky Threads Instagram YouTube TikTok WhatsApp Telegram TuneIn Soundcloud Google Discover Google News © 2026 Copyright RFI - All rights reserved. RFI is not responsible for the content of external websites. Audience ratings certified by ACPM. ACPM Page not found The content you requested does not exist or is not available anymore.