Visa to buy fraud-detection firm BioCatch for $2.4 billion Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Finance Visa to buy cybersecurity firm BioCatch for $2.4 billion amid surge in AI-powered scams Published Mon, Aug 3 2026 10:10 AM EDT Updated Mon, Aug 3 2026 12:44 PM EDT Hugh Son @hugh_son WATCH LIVE Key Points Visa is acquiring Tel Aviv-based fraud detection startup BioCatch for $2.4 billion in cash from private equity firm Permira and other investors. The deal centers on BioCatch's "behavioral biometrics" technology, which analyzes typing cadence, touchscreen swipes and device handling to catch scams before payments occur. The transaction will bolster Visa's value-added services division as the payments giant expands beyond traditional transaction fees. In this article V Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Nikolas Kokovlis | Nurphoto | Getty Images Visa on Monday said it is acquiring fraud detection startup BioCatch for $2.4 billion in cash, expanding the payment giant's push into cybersecurity as banks confront a surge in artificial intelligence-powered scams and account takeovers. Under the deal, Visa will get BioCatch's behavioral biometrics platform, which analyzes data including keystroke timing, touch screen pressure and other signals to distinguish real users from scammers and bots. Visa said it is acquiring the firm from London-based private equity firm Permira and other investors. The acquisition underscores how payments companies are racing to strengthen fraud defenses as generative AI makes attacks cheaper, faster and more convincing. Visa estimates that scams and account takeovers cost the global economy more than $1 trillion annually. The acquisition is also the latest move by Visa to expand its value-added services business, which sells fraud prevention, cybersecurity and analytics software to financial institutions and has become one of the company's fastest-growing divisions. "BioCatch will help our clients stop fraud before it reaches the point of payment," Andrew Torre, Visa's president of value-added services, said in a statement. The acquisition of BioCatch is expected to close by the end of Visa's fiscal second quarter in 2027, subject to regulatory approvals. Other financial terms weren't disclosed. While the Israeli startup said it currently protects 760 million users across roughly 350 banks, Visa's global rails connect nearly 14,500 financial institutions, processing over 329 billion transactions annually worth more than $17 trillion. In a blog post accompanying the announcement, BioCatch said joining Visa will allow it to scale its impact amid a rising tide of global fraud. "The reality is, as a society and industry, we are not winning this fight," the firm said. "The value of fraud and scam losses and the number of fraud and scam attempts, mule accounts, and victims of these financial crimes all continue to grow (in some cases, exponentially) every year, all around the world." Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by