We Tested 100 Face Moisturizers: These Are the Best in 2026 IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Top stories Owala’s back-to-school sale is here The best keratosis pilaris treatments for smoother skin Packing your skin care and makeup is so much easier with this toiletry bag How often should you change and wash your towels REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gearpost, REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gear Walmart has up to 65% off back-to-school must-haves 35+ college-exclusive back-to-school deals Skip to Content About Us Wellness All Wellness Skin Care Hair Care Oral Care Health Fitness Sleep Home All Home Small appliances Bedding & bath Cleaning Vacuums Office Gardening Kitchen All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech All Tech Electronics Personal Tech TVs Audio Computers Cameras Pets All Pets Dogs Cats Pet Care Lifestyle All Lifestyle Sports Travel Parenting Apparel Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping Subscribe Share About Us Wellness Main Menu All Wellness Skin Care Wellness All Skin Care Hair Care Wellness All Hair Care Oral Care Wellness All Oral Care Health Wellness All Health Fitness Wellness All Fitness Sleep Wellness All Sleep Home Main Menu All Home Small appliances Home All Small appliances Bedding & bath Home All Bedding & bath Cleaning Home All Cleaning Vacuums Home All Vacuums Office Home All Office Gardening Kitchen Main Menu All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech Main Menu All Tech Electronics Tech All Electronics Personal Tech Tech All Personal Tech TVs Tech All TVs Audio Tech All Audio Computers Cameras Pets Main Menu All Pets Dogs Pets All Dogs Cats Pets All Cats Pet Care Pets All Pet Care Lifestyle Main Menu All Lifestyle Sports Travel Lifestyle All Travel Parenting Apparel Lifestyle All Apparel Footwear Lifestyle All Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales Main Menu All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories Main Menu All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides Main Menu All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping More from NBC Sign up for the Selected Newsletter Check out Shop TODAY NBC News TODAY About Help Careers Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information CA Notice Terms Of Service NBC News Sitemap Advertise Ad Choices Follow Selected © 2026 NBCNEWS.COM NBC Selected independently determines what we cover and recommend. When you click on or buy through our links, we earn a commission. Learn more . NBC Selected 100 The 100 best moisturizers tested and ranked, according to NBC Selected editors We spent almost five months testing 135+ formulas to find the absolute best face moisturizers of 2026. Updated Aug. 5, 2026, 1:06 PM EDT Lindsay Schneider Former Senior Editor NBC Selected Staff Staff Skip to table of contents We tested reliable drugstore favorites, like Cerave and Cetaphil, as well as more luxurious options from brands like Augustinus Bader and Tata Harper. Kara Birnbaum / NBC In this article Our ranking Top 20 How we chose our contenders What we considered Methodology Meet our dermatology experts Why trust NBC Selected? See 4 More Consensus is rare, but when it comes to skin care, dermatologists agree: Moisturizers, like sunscreen , are a critical component of any daily skin care routine . They not only prevent dryness and irritation, but they’re crucial for repairing and maintaining your skin barrier , according to experts I spoke with. It takes some trial and error to find the right formula for your skin type, texture and age. Not everyone has the time, money or interest — or the will to sustain many breakouts that'll inevitably pop up — in sampling dozens (if not hundreds) of skin care brands on the market right now. That’s why we set out to do the work, so you don't have to. To find the absolute best face moisturizers, we spent almost five months testing more than 135 formulas, ultimately ranking our top 100. See our official ranking below, followed by our testing criteria and methodology. Related selected selected The 100 best face sunscreens tested and ranked, according to NBC Select editors Want more from NBC Selected? Sign up for our newsletter, The Selection, and shop smarter. Our ranking 100: Pink Moon Capricorn Moisturizer (out of stock) 99: Neutrogena Hydro Boost Hyaluronic Acid Moisturizer SPF 50 98: Monika Blunder Beauty Undercover Face Creme 97: Jones Road Miracle Cream 96: Indie Lee Retinol Alternative Cream 95: Moon Juice Cosmic Cream 94: EltaMD Skin Recovery Light Moisturizer 93: Grown Alchemist Skin Renewal Day Cream 92: Bareminerals Ageless 10% Phyto ProCollagen Firming Anti-Age Cream 91: HH Science Balanced Skin Lightweight Oil-Free Moisturizer 90: HH Science Antioxidant Facial Cream Former associate reporter Bianca Alvarez paid particular attention to how formulas interacted with her eczema. Kara Birnbaum / NBC 89: Alo Beauty Luminizing Face Moisturizer (out of stock) 88: Derma E Vitamin C Renewing Moisturizer 87: Rhode Barrier Restore Cream 86: Jackfir The Classic Daily Facial Moisturizer 85: Perricone MD High Potency Classics Retinol Recovery Overnight Moisturizer 84: Revision Skincare D.E.J. Face Cream 83: Inside Beauty Antioxidant Moisturizer 82: Deinde Moisture-Locking Face Stick 81: Bioré UV Aqua Rich Weightless Moisturizer 80: Bareminerals Ageless Phyto-Retinol Face Cream (out of stock) 79: Peach Slices Snail Rescue Moisturizer 78: The A Method C Glow Moisturizer 77: Dieux Instant Angel 76: Retrouvé Intensive Replenishing Facial Moisturizer 75: Versed Rich Moisture Cream 74: SkinMedica Dermal Repair Cream 73: Sunday Riley C.E.O. Vitamin C Rich Hydration Cream 72: Weleda Skin Food Face Care Nourishing Day Cream 71: Glow Recipe Watermelon Pink Juice Oil-Free Refillable Moisturizer 70: Violette_Fr Boum Boum Milk 69: The Outset Nourishing Squalane Daily Moisturizer 68: Violets Are Blue Enzyme Jelly Hydra Mask 67: Kora Organics Plant Stem Cell Retinol Alternative Firming Moisturizer 66: Farmacy Daily Greens Oil Free Gel Face Moisturizer 65: Lanolips 101 Dry Skin Super Cream 64: Thayers Let’s Be Clear Water Cream 63: Olehenriksen Strength Trainer Peptide Boost Moisturizer 62: Summer Fridays Jet Lag Mask 61: Dieux Air Angel Hydrating Gel Cream Editorial director Lauren Swanson preferred thick moisturizers that combated any flaking or peeling she had from Accutane. Courtesy Lauren Swanson 60: SkinCeuticals Daily Moisture 59: Peach & Lily Matcha Pudding Antioxidant Cream 58: Topicals Like Butter Moisturizer 57: Glossier Priming Moisturizer 56: 760 Skin Dew or Dry Moisturizer 55: Danucera Cream Supreme 54: First Aid Beauty Ultra Repair Cream 53: Medik8 Advanced Night Ceramide 52: Tatcha The Water Cream 51: Erno Laszlo Firmarine Moisturizer SPF 30 (out of stock) 50: Acure Radically Rejuvenating Whipped Night Cream 49: Avené Cicalfate+ Restorative Protective Cream 48: Lancer Skincare The Method: Nourish Women’s Anti-Aging Moisturizer 47: Byoma Moisturizing Rich Cream 46: 111Skin Repair Day Cream 45: Neutrogena Hydro Boost Water Cream 44: Cosrx Snail Mucin 92% Repair Cream 43: Korres Greek Yoghurt Nourishing Probiotic Gel-Cream 42: Dime Beauty TBT Cream 41: Epicuren Discovery Facial Emulsion Enzyme Moisturizer 40: Farmacy Honey Halo Ceramide Face Moisturizer Cream We tried reliable drugstore favorites, like Cetaphil and La Roche-Posay, as well as bestsellers from popular brands like Glossier and Jones Road Beauty. Courtesy Zoe Malin 39 : Innisfree Green Tea Seed Hyaluronic Cream 38: Skin by Dr. Sethi Ultra Glow Moisturizer 37: Clarins Multi-Active Day Cream SPF 20 36: Roc Barrier Renew Night Moisturizer 35: Roc Barrier Renew Day Cream with SPF 30 34: Charlotte Tilbury Magic Cream 33: PCA Skin Hydraluxe Moisturizer 32: Summer Fridays Rich Cushion Cream 31: Kat Burki Vitamin C Intensive Face Cream 30: Osea Collagen Dream Night Cream 29: Augustinus Bader The Rich Cream 28: Fresh Rose & Hyaluronic Acid Deep Hydration Moisturizer 27: Drunk Elephant Protini Polypeptide Firming Moisturizer 26: Charlotte Tilbury Magic Water Cream 25: Filorga Global-Repair Advanced Daily Face Cream 24: Good.Clean.Goop Nutrient-Rich Daily Moisturizer 23: Joanna Vargas Eden Hydrating Pro Moisturizer 22: Futurewise Slug Cream (out of stock) 21: Tata Harper Crème Riche Related selected selected All lip balms aren't created equally. Here's what to know when treating chapped lips Top 20 20. Mighty Patch Clear Collective Clarifying Prebiotic Moisturizer $ 12.99 Dermstore What to know Size: 0.5 oz, 2.36 oz. | Best for: normal, dry, combination and oily skin | Key ingredients: glycerin Mighty Patch's vibrant yellow packaging always immediately catches my eye in my cabinet. I have dry, sensitive and rosacea-prone skin and this is a great fragrance-free moisturizer that I use in the morning. It has a super lightweight, lotion-like texture that my skin quickly absorbs, making it easy to apply under my makeup. (It prevents dry skin flakiness from ruining my foundation, too). Admittedly, it’s not the most hydrating, so its not one I’d use on my driest days or during the winter, but it does the job when I want something light that won’t leave me shiny or greasy. The yellow tube is also transparent, so I can see exactly how much product I have left and know when I’ll need to repurchase. - Mili Godio , updates editor 19. Dermalogica Stabilizing Repair Cream $ 69.00 Amazon $ 69.00 Sephora $ 69.00 Ulta What to know Size: 1.7 oz. | Best for: dry, combination skin | Key ingredients: glycerin, squalane Dermalogica’s lightweight cream is great for my combination skin. In the winter, my face becomes bone dry — like that scene in “SpongeBob SquarePants” where he shrivels up and acts like he doesn’t need water. This cream was easy to blend in and helps hydrate my skin during harsh winter days. It was a bit too lightweight for my skin, however. I would sometimes become dry after only a few hours, so it didn’t rank higher on our list. - Jordan Bowman , former commerce editor 18. Curology Barrier Balm $ 10.86 Walmart What to know Size: 0.9 oz., 1.6 oz. | Best for: dry, sensitive skin | Key ingredients: shea butter, hyaluronic acid When I first tried Curology's Barrier Balm , I was shocked by how quickly and easily it melted into my skin. I’m prone to getting flaky, dry patches all over my face, especially in the winter, and this moisturizer healed them almost instantly. It’s an occlusive , which means it sits on top of the skin and acts as a barrier to keep moisture locked in, so I only use it when dealing with really dry skin since it feels oily (almost like Vaseline ) and can get a bit sticky, which I didn’t love. However, unlike other occlusive balms I’ve tried, it’s lightweight and easy to apply. I like using it on my hands nearly every day to keep them soft and hydrated, too, and the mini size is small enough to throw in a bag or pocket quickly. - Godio 17. Bubble Cloud Surf Water Cream Moisturizer $ 16.00 Ulta $ 17.99 CVS Pharmacy $ 16.00 Bubble Skincare What to know Size: 1.7 oz. | Best for: normal, combo and sensitive skin | Key ingredients: glycerin The vibrant packaging was the first thing I noticed about Bubble's moisturizer — it made me excited to try what was inside. Before I could do so, I had to battle with the cream formula's push-pump applicator, which, in my experience, is usually messy and leaves excess product pouring out from the pump. This pump was more controlled than others I’ve tried, but still gave me a little too much product with each use, which is why this didn't rank higher on our list. When it comes to the formula itself, a little goes a long way: It has a light, almost airy texture that's easy to spread across my skin with no feelings of heaviness (my No. 1 issue with most moisturizers). Despite its lightweight feel, my skin’s moisture levels lasted throughout the day. The natural finish also works well with balancing my skin’s oiliness — however during hotter weather, I’d probably reach for a less dewy option. - Ashley Morris , associate SEO reporter 16. Kiehl's Ultra Facial Cream $ 39.00 Ulta What to know Size: 1.7 oz. | Best for: normal, dry, combination and oily skin | Key ingredients: squalane, glycerin The first thing I noticed about Kiehl's Ultra Facial Cream was how small the tub was. The second thing was how great my skin felt with even a small amount of this cream. It’s extremely hydrating, absorbs instantly and doesn’t feel heavy. I'm sensitive to the weight of moisturizers, so this was a huge bonus for me. It’s also unscented, which is something I tend to look for in face cream. Overall, it made my skin feel healthier and look less dull. It didn’t resolve any of my acne pop ups or discoloration, but I also didn’t notice it contributing to any sort of irritation either. - Rosalie Sparaco, former senior manager of community engagement 15. Tower28 SOS Recovery Cream $ 24.00 Sephora $ 24.00 Tower 28 Beauty What to know Size: 1.86 oz. | Best for: all skin types | Key ingredients: ceramides, hyaluronic acid Tower 28's SOS Recovery Cream is simple but still gets the job done. It has all the ingredients I want in a barrier repair cream, but unlike other options I tested during this process, it has a lightweight consistency. It instantly feels dewy on my skin, and I notice that my eczema flare-ups have less redness and irritation. It doesn’t take up much space in my bags, either, but its small size might be a con for some. Since I have dry skin, I tend to go through moisturizers quickly, so I run out of this faster than other options. Given the price, I wish it were a little bigger. - Bianca Alvarez , former associate reporter 14. Thayer's Barrier Bestie Ultra Whip Cream $ 9.29 Amazon What to know Size: 1.86 oz. | Best for: all skin types | Key ingredients: ceramides, hyaluronic acid, petrolatum I started testing Thayer's Barrier Bestie Ultra Whip Cream in the transition from winter to spring when my skin was at its driest, and it kept my face well hydrated. The rich, thick texture prevented me drying out and left my face feeling smooth. It’s one of the few moisturizers I tried that I found to be actually fragrance-free, which is important to me since my skin is easily irritated. Overall, it’s a dependable moisturizer, but I wouldn’t wear it year round since it’s rather thick. - Rebecca Rodriguez , former editorial projects manager 13. Itk Prebiotic Gel Moisturizer $ 9.99 $ 13.99 Walmart Now 29% off $ 14.97 itk What to know Size: 2 oz. | Best for: acne-prone and oily skin | Key ingredients: prebiotics, niacinamide, squalane, glycerin Because Itk's moisturizer smells similar to the one my facialist uses, I was instantly transported to a spa when I first spread this over my skin. The scent is mild, which I appreciate since I don't like using face creams that smells like fragrant hand lotions . I only needed a tiny amount to cover my face (the brand recommends a blueberry-sized dot), and it didn’t leak out of the lid’s opening when I flipped the bottle over despite its thinner texture. It hydrated my skin and didn’t irritate it at all. For about $15, I’d throw a tube of this cream in my cart if I ran out and saw it at the store, but it’s only available at Walmart, making quick refills challenging. - Zoe Malin , reporter 12. Tata Harper Water Lock Moisturizer $ 74.00 Sephora $ 74.00 Bluemercury $ 74.00 Nordstorm What to know Size: 1.7 oz. | Best for: oily and combination skin | Key ingredients: peptides, hyaluronic acid Tata Harper's Water Lock Moisturizer has all the signs of a luxe product: a shiny gold lid, rounded container and the airless pump-style dispenser. That said, the product isn’t all aesthetics; it’s a good moisturizer for people with combination or oily skin , and it has a delightful yet subtle green tea scent that isn’t overpowering. When I used this at night, it gave me a decent amount of coverage and moisture through to the morning, even around my nose and cheeks, where I get dry. From a practical standpoint, the short cylindrical shape fits nicely in my small cabinet, though it retails for $68, which is on the expensive side. - Cory Fernandez , commerce editor 11. Vanicream Daily Facial Moisturizer $ 13.97 $ 14.95 Amazon Now 7% off $ 13.99 Target $ 18.99 Ulta What to know Size: 3 oz. | Best for: sensitive skin | Key ingredients: squalane, glycerin, hyaluronic acid Is it the sexiest product? No. But I love it so much that I bought the biggest tub available and proudly display it on my bathroom sink. When everything else fails me, the Vanicream Daily Moisturizer brings my skin back to life. It’s on the thicker side but doesn't clog my pores and is absolutely fabulous for my dry, flaking, peeling skin. This is one of very few products that I will always buy again when it runs out — my skin practically craves it when it’s gone. - Lauren Swanson, editorial director 10. Colleen Rothschild Sheer Renewal Cream $ 55.00 Colleen Rothschild Beauty What to know Size: 2.5 fl oz. | Best for: normal, oily and combination skin | Key ingredients: lactic acid One of the things I love most about Colleen Rothschild's Sheer Renewal Cream is that it’s actually not much of a cream at all — it’s so lightweight that it feels a lot more like a lotion, given how easily my skin absorbs it. As a lifelong oily-skin girl, I always struggle to find a non-mattifying moisturizer that can keep my skin balanced and hydrated. I like that this leaves a slightly dewy finish that makes me look (and feel) refreshed, without any excess oiliness. I usually wait about two minutes between steps in my skin care routine, but my skin absorbed this so quickly that I could apply my sunscreen almost immediately afterward. On hotter days it does tend to get slightly greasy when combined with some SPFs, however. - Morris 9. Olay Micro-Sculpting Cream $ 23.94 $ 27.49 Amazon Now 13% off $ 23.99 Target $ 23.94 $ 27.49 Walmart Now 13% off What to know Size: 1.7 oz. | Best for: normal, oily and dry skin | Key ingredients: glycerin, niacinamide There’s a reason Olay remains a household name: During the testing process, I repeatedly went back to this moisturizer because it kept my skin hydrated, making it look vibrant and smooth. After using it once, I immediately noticed a brighter, more even skin tone, and with continued use I could see my skin becoming firmer and lifted. As someone with rosacea and eczema-prone skin, I am wary of what I put on my face, but Olay’s Microsculpting Cream was gentle. I found the texture thin and lightweight without feeling watery, which made a little go a long way on my face and neck. The tub packaging lets me take just what I need and easily put back any excess. - Rodriguez 8. Cerave Moisturizing Cream $ 15.99 Target $ 16.12 Walmart What to know Type: cream | Key ingredients: ceramides, hyaluronic acid, petrolatum | Skin type: normal to dry skin Without a doubt, Cerave Moisturizing Cream is one of the only moisturizers my sensitive, dry and eczema-prone skin could tolerate. It has a fast-absorbing, thick consistency (not ointment-like, though), which made my eczema patches look and feel less like a desert landscape. It’s also free of common irritants (like added fragrances) and has the National Eczema Association’s Seal of Acceptance, which gives me peace of mind because I know it won’t worsen my flare-ups. A little bit goes such a long way, so one tub lasts me a couple of months. Since it’s in tub form, you have to scoop it out, which can be messy, which is one of the reasons it wasn’t higher on our list. - Alvarez 7. Kiehl's Ultra Facial Advanced Repair Barrier Cream $ 48.00 Amazon What to know Size: 1.7 oz. | Best for: normal, dry, combination and oily skin | Key ingredients: colloidal oatmeal, glycerin, niacinamide We love this barrier repair cream so much that we gave it an NBC Selected Wellness Award . And for good reason: It has a thick, creamy texture so a little goes a long way, and it doesn't feel greasy or heavy on the skin. Since I have moderate rosacea, I pay very close attention to what I put on my face — this cream fits the bill if you need a sensitive skin-friendly product . Not only is it fragrance-free, but it also calms any redness, small bumps and dryness from my rosacea overnight. I loved lathering this on in the winter since it gets rid of dry patches that form throughout my day by the next morning. - Godio 6. Belif The True Cream Aqua Bomb $ 38.00 $ 40.00 Amazon Now 5% off $ 40.00 Ulta $ 40.00 Sephora What to know Size: 0.84 oz., 1.69 oz., 3.38 oz. | Best for: oily and combination skin | Key ingredients: hyaluronic acid, niacinamide The Belif True Cream Aqua Bomb is one of the better face moisturizers I tried during this process. My skin felt like it was hydrated for hours, with no dry patches or flakiness on my face. It’s lightweight, so I was surprised by how effective it was. I expected to blend it into my face without much noticeable change, but it worked almost immediately. My skin felt replenished and I kept turning back to this, even after testing other moisturizers. - Bowman 5. Cetaphil Healthy Renew Night Cream $ 16.97 $ 19.99 Amazon Now 15% off $ 16.97 $ 19.84 Walmart Now 14% off $ 19.49 $ 25.99 Ulta Now 25% off What to know Size: 1.7 oz. | Best for: all skin types | Key ingredients: peptides, vitamins B3 and B5, botanical extracts As anyone who uses a prescription topical acne medication knows, intense dryness is often a side effect. It’s something I’ve struggled with throughout the years I’ve used Tretinoin, so on nights when I don’t apply the medication, I slather my face in this Cetaphil night cream . It’s thicker and creamier than my day cream, but not as rich as a standard barrier balm, and leaves my skin feeling extra hydrated. It’s never irritated my sensitive skin when it’s super raw (which it tends to be in the winter), or caused clogged pores or breakouts. It’s definitely a repeat buy for me. - Malin 4. Biossance Squalane & Probiotic Gel Moisturizer $ 49.00 Sephora $ 49.00 Biossance What to know Size: 1.69 oz. | Best for: sensitive, dry, normal and combination skin | Key ingredients: ceramides, niacinamide As a skin care fanatic, having the opportunity to test out dozens of moisturizers was really exciting — until my skin started freaking out. This Biossance gel moisturizer was one of the few that didn’t irritate or break me out, and in fact, was a formula I kept coming back to in between testing other options as a way to calm my skin. It’s genuinely fragrance-free and has an instant cooling effect that feels quite soothing. It has that perfect Goldilocks consistency, too — it’s not too thick or watery. I only wish it was a bit cheaper. - Lindsay Schneider , former senior editor 3. La Roche-Posay Toleriane Double Repair Face Moisturizer $ 24.99 Amazon $ 24.99 Target $ 25.99 Ulta What to know Size: 1.35 oz., 3.38 oz. | Best for: sensitive, dry, normal and combination skin | Key ingredients: ceramides, niacinamide I’m very picky about what moisturizer I put on my face daily. I have dry, sensitive skin prone to breakouts, and since I use prescription acne medication (Tretinoin), I need moisturizers that are simple, hydrating and free from artificial scents and fragrances. This meets all my requirements. My skin absorbs the scentless formula quickly so I can put makeup over it after about a minute. This La Roche-Posay moisturizer also spreads well — I only have to use a small amount at a time, so I foresee my tube lasting me a while. Plus, I threw it in my toiletry bag while traveling and its cap stayed closed the whole time without any issues. - Malin 2. Glossier After Baume $ 34.00 Sephora $ 34.00 Glossier What to know Size: 1.7 oz., 4.2 oz. | Best for: dry and/or sensitive skin | Key ingredients: glycerin I’ve tried many moisturizers during my journey on isotretinoin, commonly known as Accutane . My sensitive, dry skin frequently flakes and peels, so I flock to super-thick creams. The Glossier After Baume is just that and then some — it helps my skin’s moisture level last all day, which is rare for me. As a pro tip, I like to scoop the product out of the tin and warm it in my hands. It blends in better when it has a little added warmth. - Swanson 1. Cetaphil Moisturizing Cream for Dry to Very Dry Skin $ 9.97 $ 10.99 Amazon Now 9% off $ 13.49 Target What to know Size: 1 oz., 3 oz., 8.8 oz., 16 oz., 20 oz. | Best for: dry and/or sensitive skin | Key ingredients: niacinamide, glycerin, petroleum jelly Under this bright green lid is a moisturizer that can handle any and everything: cracked knuckles, dry elbows, sensitive temples, you name it. Every time, it leaves my skin feeling refreshed, without a trace of fragrance or sheen. It feels thick and rich as it comes out of the jar, with an aroma barely registering on my nose. Everyone on our staff who tried this found it simple, reliable and nourishing, regardless of their skin type. It may not exactly scream “spa day,” but that’s not the Cetaphil brand. It is a drugstore staple and a household essential for a reason: It’s a cream for everybody and every budget. - Harry Rabinowitz , reporter How we chose our contenders Our final testing list of more than 135 formulas was based on our previous reporting (including stories on the best moisturizers for dry skin , mature skin , night creams and skin barrier creams), as well as our Wellness Award winners . Our team also nominated brands we were eager to test, including moisturizers we already use and love as well as new formulations we were curious about. We also spent weeks researching already popular, bestselling contenders prior to testing. After testing every editor submitted both qualitative and quantitative feedback for each moisturizer. Vivian Le / NBC When considering moisturizers, we focused on day and night creams, but excluded formulas with AHAs or BHAs, retinol and acids. We tested moisturizers with SPF and some without; we also tried some with vitamin C . We mostly focused on creams specifically designed for the face, though we did try some multiuse formulas you can use across your body, hands , and neck . We made sure to include formulas at various price points and also tried to sample as many brands as possible. We treated drugstore options, like Cerave and Cetaphil , with equal thought and care as more expensive options from SkinCeuticals and Biossance . What we considered While every member of our testing team has different formula preferences as it pertains to their skin tone, texture and concern, we asked our editors to consider the same criteria when evaluating each moisturizer. Every entry could earn a maximum of three points per category: We gave more points to thick, unscented formulas, while moisturizers that were sticky or oily lost points. Courtesy Zoe Malin Scent: Is it fragrance free? If not, was it overwhelming, bothersome or irritating? We awarded more points to unscented formulas. Consistency: We gave higher scores to thicker, less-diluted moisturizers. For gels, we considered whether the formulas were cooling or too watery. Absorption: Did the moisturizer penetrate the skin, and if so, how quickly? Did it leave us oily or shiny? We prioritized fast-absorbing options. Wear over time: We awarded more points to formulas that kept our skin hydrated throughout the day and overnight. We subtracted points if it resulted in oiliness; we also paid particular attention to how soft our skin was while testing. Packaging: We evaluated how well the pump or tub dispensed the products and whether it leaked. For pumps, if too much or too little came out at a time, we deducted points. For aluminum-tubed products, we also noted whether the casing cracked or ripped. Value: Is it worth the cost in terms of quality and size? Effectiveness: Did the product solve or exacerbate a skin care issue we were having? Rebuy factor: We received almost all of the moisturizers for free from brands as courtesy samples; we subsequently asked our editors to consider whether they would buy these formulas on their own. And if so, would they pay full price or was that conditional on having a gift card or discount available? View this post on Instagram A post shared by NBC Select (@nbcselect) Methodology Our editors paid close attention to the texture and scent of every formula. Courtesy Bianca Alvarez Our team tried more than 135 moisturizers over four months in the depths of winter in New York City. (As noted above, we received almost all of the moisturizers for free from brands as courtesy samples.) We considered every editor’s skin type when distributing products and assigned them formulas that would not knowingly irritate their skin. At least two editors used each product. In doing so, every editor tested each moisturizer for at least three days — both day and night — and then assigned points based on the above criteria; they also provided qualitative commentary during this feedback round. The higher the score, the better the product performed in our ranking. After using quantitative data to get an initial rank based on average scores, we adjusted the placement of certain moisturizers after assessing editor notes, availability and price point. We tried to include as many brands as possible — only 13 brands have multiple entries. Meet our dermatology experts At NBC Selected, we work with experts who have specialized knowledge and authority based on relevant training and/or experience. We also take steps to ensure all expert advice and recommendations are made independently and without undisclosed financial conflicts of interest. Dr. Arash Akhavan , MD, FAAD is a board-certified dermatologist and owner of The Dermatology and Laser Group in New York City . Dr. William W. Huang , MPH, FAAD is a board-certified dermatologist and an adjunct professor in the Department of Dermatology at Duke University School of Medicine. Dr. Nkem Ugonabo , MPH, is a board-certified dermatologist at UnionDerm in New York City and an assistant professor at Albert Einstein College of Medicine’s dermatology division. Why trust NBC Selected? Lindsay Schneider is a former editor for NBC Selected with more than 8 years of experience in the lifestyle media space. For this package, our staff tested 135+ face moisturizers for almost five months to find their favorites. We considered popular drugstore brands as well as bestselling options from higher-end brands and ranked our top contenders. Catch up on NBC Selected’s in-depth coverage of tech and tools , wellness and more, and follow us on Facebook , Instagram , Twitter and TikTok to stay up to date. Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off Lindsay Schneider Lindsay Schneider is a former senior editor for NBC Selected. The 100 best moisturizers tested and ranked, according to NBC Selected editors ¿Cuál es el mejor protector solar para el rostro? Probamos 110 por seis semanas para descubrirlo The 100 best things we’ve ever bought from Amazon Latest articles NBC Selected Staff NBC Selected Staff on NBC News The 100 best moisturizers tested and ranked, according to NBC Selected editors Latest articles Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off In this article Our ranking Top 20 How we chose our contenders What we considered Methodology Meet our dermatology experts Why trust NBC Selected? ABOUT CONTACT HELP CAREERS PRIVACY POLICY DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION CA NOTICE TERMS OF SERVICE NBC NEWS SITEMAP AD CHOICES ADVERTISE DEALS & SALES SKIN CARE HEALTH TECH NBCNews.com © 2026 SELECTED | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.