UK tribunal confirms professor’s anti-Zionism is legally protected belief | Education News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up News | Education UK tribunal confirms professor’s anti-Zionism is legally protected belief David Miller has told Al Jazeera the ruling is a victory that will encourage others to speak out against Zionism. Listen (3 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google Professor David Miller, whose appeal against unfair dismissal has been upheld [Courtesy of David Miller] By Yasmeen Eltahan Published On 5 Aug 2026 5 Aug 2026 British professor David Miller was unlawfully fired by the University of Bristol because of his criticism of Zionism, an employment tribunal has ruled, confirming that anti-Zionism is a legally protected belief in the United Kingdom. In its ruling published on Tuesday, the Employment Appeal Tribunal said Miller had been dismissed by the university in October 2021 because of comments in which he “expressed protected philosophical beliefs”. Recommended Stories list of 3 items list 1 of 3 UK Court upholds ban on Palestine Action as ‘terrorist’ group list 2 of 3 Will Andy Burnham mark a shift in the UK’s Gaza policy? list 3 of 3 Pro-Palestine protesters rally for ‘Filton 25’ activists at UK court end of list “The decision to dismiss the claimant and the refusal of his appeal against that dismissal were each found to be unlawful acts of direct discrimination,” the tribunal said. “The dismissal was held to be unfair, and wrongful.” Miller told Al Jazeera the ruling was a victory for all those in Britain who are opposed to Zionism, a nationalist ideology that contends that Jewish people have the right to self-determination in historic Palestine, which Zionists view as their ancestral homeland. “It will be very, very difficult for any employer, not just in terms of universities, but any employer in the UK, anyone who’s in any kind of employment-like relationship with individuals to suspend them, to sack them, to target them because they’ve got anti-Zionist views,” Miller said. Miller, who had worked as a professor of political sociology at Bristol since 2018, challenged the university at an employment tribunal after he was sacked, claiming unfair dismissal, breach of contract and discrimination or victimisation on grounds of religion or belief. The Wills Memorial Building, part of the University of Bristol, pictured on May 16, 2019 [File: Geoff Caddick/AFP] ‘Political pawns’ Advertisement Miller had described some Jewish student groups as “political lobby groups” and expressed opposition to “Jewish students on British campuses being used as political pawns by a violent, racist foreign regime engaged in ethnic cleansing”. In February 2024, the tribunal ruled he had been unfairly dismissed for comments which were lawful, not anti-Semitic, and did not incite violence or threaten anyone’s safety. The university appealed, but the latest ruling has confirmed his firing was unlawful and discriminatory. The ruling implicitly confirms that under British law, anti-Zionism does not equate to anti-Semitism – prejudice against Jewish people. A spokesperson said the University of Bristol was “disappointed” with the findings, adding that it remains committed to protecting free speech “exercised appropriately and in line with our codes of conduct”. Miller told Al Jazeera there had been a “pressure campaign from external Zionist organisations and Zionist student organisations” to get him dismissed. “They came to believe that the things that I was saying, fairly straightforward anti-Zionist positions, were somehow beyond the pale,” he said. Miller said his dismissal had discouraged other academics from speaking out. He said they “were already self-censoring and when they saw what happened to me, that encouraged the self-censorship”. “I hope that this victory will mean there are some academics who feel that they can speak out,” he said. “They can speak the truth about the genocide in the Levant, and this will encourage people to start to be much more critical of Zionism as an ideology and not just say that there are some forms of Zionism which are problematic.” Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network