‘Mamma mia!’: Trump tariffs refund ignites 53% profit spike at Nintendo | Nintendo | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Nintendo said sales of its Switch 2 console, which was released last summer, maintained strong momentum but overall sales dropped 10%. Photograph: Richard A Brooks/AFP/Getty Images View image in fullscreen Nintendo said sales of its Switch 2 console, which was released last summer, maintained strong momentum but overall sales dropped 10%. Photograph: Richard A Brooks/AFP/Getty Images Nintendo ‘Mamma mia!’: Trump tariffs refund ignites 53% profit spike at Nintendo Profit jump fuelled largely by unknown US refund amount as Japanese video game firm records quarterly sales drop Kalyeena Makortoff Thu 6 Aug 2026 07.11 EDT First published on Thu 6 Aug 2026 06.13 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Nintendo has reported a jump in profits, as the Japanese game maker’s earnings were buoyed up by a long-awaited refund on Donald Trump’s tariffs. The company said profits surged 53.5% to ¥147.4bn (£694m) over the three months to June, substantially beating expert forecasts for ¥77.8bn. Nintendo said sales of its Switch 2 console, which was released last summer, “maintained strong sales momentum”, while popular games such as Yoshi and the Mysterious Book, Star Fox, and Pokémon Pokopia “performed steadily”. However, that did not make up for an overall drop in sales compared with the same period last year, with revenue down by 10% to ¥517.8bn. ‘Let’s-a go!’ The story of Nintendo – podcast Read more Instead, Nintendo said profits were aided by a refund on US tariffs, after the country’s supreme court ruled in February that Donald Trump’s sweeping “liberation day” trade levies were illegal. The Trump administration has refunded about $100bn from the tariffs charged before the court ruling, representing 60% of the total $165bn collected. Trump has continued to pitch tariffs as a solution for the US economy, bringing back domestic production, securing better trade deals and closing the deficit in the federal budget. Nintendo’s Tokyo-listed shares were up 2.87% on Thursday after the earnings release. The company filed a lawsuit weeks after the US supreme court ruling, demanding a full refund from the White House that would cover what it spent on tariffs, plus interest. While a refund now appears to have come through, Nintendo stopped short of confirming the full amount, at a time when it is still appears to be resisting calls to pass those refunds on to consumers. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Every weekday Sign up to Business Today Get set for the working day – we'll point you to all the business news and analysis you need every morning Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion Last month, Nintendo was hit with a class action lawsuit on behalf of customers , which claims the company hiked its prices because of tariffs but later benefited from the refunds. Nintendo’s lawyers described the lawsuit as “meritless”, and that the price customers paid represented “the purchase price of the goods they wanted and received.” Last month, Trump imposed a fresh round of tariffs on more than 80 countries, including Japan, in a move that is likely to pose further problems for companies such as Nintendo. However, a coalition of 25 US states are now suing the Trump administration over the levies , potentially opening the door to another round of refunds for beleaguered exporters. Explore more on these topics Nintendo Trump tariffs Nintendo Switch 2 Games Japan Tariffs International trade news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Trump orders new 15% tariff on key material for solar panels and microchips 3d ago Former Nintendo factory in Kyoto opens as nostalgia-fuelled gaming museum 2 Oct 2024 Forget open world adventures: Retro Bowl is so cute I want to cuddle it 27 Sept 2024 … … comments US refunds $100bn of Donald Trump’s ‘liberation day’ tariffs 5d ago The Legend of Zelda: Echoes of Wisdom review – a lot to learn 25 Sept 2024 Brazil vows to retaliate if US imposes 25% tariffs on some of its products 16 Jul 2026 Pushing Buttons: At Nintendo’s new museum in Japan, I found a nostalgia-laced trip down memory lane – not a history lesson 25 Sept 2024 US refunds $81bn in Trump tariffs after supreme court ruled them illegal 14 Jul 2026 Luigi’s Mansion 2 HD review – the scariest surprise is the price 2 Jul 2024 European parliament finally approves Trump tariff deal 16 Jun 2026 Most viewed Most viewed Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)