House committee launches investigation into Republican lawmaker amid domestic abuse allegations – as it happened | Republicans | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to key events Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness US politics live Republicans House committee launches investigation into Republican lawmaker amid domestic abuse allegations – as it happened This live blog is now closed. Sign up for US Breaking News email Updated 8m ago Coral Murphy Marcos (now); Shannon Ho , George Chidi and Tom Ambrose (earlier) Tue 4 Aug 2026 17.54 EDT First published on Tue 4 Aug 2026 06.27 EDT Share Key events 7m ago Closing summary 19m ago Max Miller: leaked private photos of his daughter 'taken very much out of context' 3h ago Ex-Olympian weighing ‘all options’ after reflecting pool charges dropped 3h ago House committee launches investigation into Republican lawmaker amid domestic abuse allegations 4h ago Senator Moreno: dealing with Max Miller dispute 'truly the seventh level of hell' 4h ago Republican lawmaker calls for investigation on himself amid domestic abuse allegations 5h ago Max Miller faces growing calls to resign over domestic abuse allegations 6h ago John Cornyn says 'we have no alternative but to take his word' over Blanche's decision to rescind 'anti-weaponization' fund 7h ago Todd Blanche’s attorney general nomination will advance to full US Senate vote 8h ago John Cornyn, Republican senator for Texas, says he is satisfied by Todd Blanche's assurances that $1.8bn 'anti-weaponization' fund is dead 8h ago White House calls emergency summit of AI business leaders over voluntary compliance system 10h ago Trump makes rare western trip in bid to shore up support for midterm elections 11h ago Michigan votes in key Senate primary as Democrats battle over party’s future 12h ago GOP senators say they will back Blanche as attorney general following deal over fund Representative Max Miller in June. Photograph: Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call via Getty Images View image in fullscreen Representative Max Miller in June. Photograph: Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call via Getty Images Coral Murphy Marcos (now); Shannon Ho , George Chidi and Tom Ambrose (earlier) Tue 4 Aug 2026 17.54 EDT First published on Tue 4 Aug 2026 06.27 EDT Share From 5h ago 13.13 EDT Max Miller faces growing calls to resign over domestic abuse allegations Robert Tait Max Miller , a Republican representative from Ohio , is facing a rising groundswell of resignation calls from his own party over domestic abuse allegations after his ex-father-in-law, Bernie Moreno , a GOP senator, said he was unfit to serve in Congress. With a deadline looming for party leaders to choose a potential replacement, Miller, a former White House aide, also came under pressure from Donald Trump on Monday after the president reportedly called and told him “things aren’t looking good” for his re-election campaign against his Democratic opponent, Brian Poindexter . Pleas for Miller to step down intensified after Moreno – father of Miller’s former wife, Emily Moreno – broke his silence on Sunday after months of refraining from comment on allegations concerning the alleged abuse of his daughter. “If there are any basic standards of character required to hold elected office, Max Miller fails them,” Moreno, an ally of Trump, posted . “He should not serve in the House of Representatives.” Moreno’s comments came after Miller posted a livestream video defending himself against the abuse accusations and saying his former wife had “significant mental-health challenges”. A series of public statements from Moreno’s fellow Republican senators indicate that their sympathies are with him. “[Miller] should resign. He should quit,” Roger Marshall , a senator from Kansas, told Politico. “I don’t know Mr Miller’s story, but I trust Bernie [Moreno] so much as a good friend, and his family has such high values.” The West Virginia senator Shelley Moore Capito said: “I don’t know [Miller]. I haven’t read a whole lot about him, but if [Moreno] thinks he ought to resign, I’m supportive of that.” Ohio Republican Max Miller faces growing calls to resign over domestic abuse allegations Read more Share Key events 7m ago Closing summary 19m ago Max Miller: leaked private photos of his daughter 'taken very much out of context' 3h ago Ex-Olympian weighing ‘all options’ after reflecting pool charges dropped 3h ago House committee launches investigation into Republican lawmaker amid domestic abuse allegations 4h ago Senator Moreno: dealing with Max Miller dispute 'truly the seventh level of hell' 4h ago Republican lawmaker calls for investigation on himself amid domestic abuse allegations 5h ago Max Miller faces growing calls to resign over domestic abuse allegations 6h ago John Cornyn says 'we have no alternative but to take his word' over Blanche's decision to rescind 'anti-weaponization' fund 7h ago Todd Blanche’s attorney general nomination will advance to full US Senate vote 8h ago John Cornyn, Republican senator for Texas, says he is satisfied by Todd Blanche's assurances that $1.8bn 'anti-weaponization' fund is dead 8h ago White House calls emergency summit of AI business leaders over voluntary compliance system 10h ago Trump makes rare western trip in bid to shore up support for midterm elections 11h ago Michigan votes in key Senate primary as Democrats battle over party’s future 12h ago GOP senators say they will back Blanche as attorney general following deal over fund 7m ago 17.54 EDT Closing summary Thanks for following our live coverage of the second Trump administration. Stay tuned to our blog dedicated to the US midterm primary elections , where we’ll be watching the latest developments in Michigan, Kansas, Missouri, Virginia and Washington. Here are the highlights for today: The US Senate judiciary committee voted along party lines to advance Todd Blanche’s nomination for attorney general after he confirmed in writing that a planned $1.8bn slush fund for Donald Trump’s allies was dead. Experts say, however, that Trump could easily reverse the deal. More here . Max Miller, a US Republican representative from Ohio, is facing a rising groundswell of resignation calls from his own party over domestic abuse allegations after his ex-father-in-law, Bernie Moreno, a GOP senator, said he was unfit to serve in Congress. The House ethics committee announced it will launch an investigation into allegations that Miller “may have engaged in domestic violence and abuse or illegal drug use in violation of the code of official conduct or any other applicable standard of conduct” after the embattled Republican said he had “nothing to hide” and welcomed the investigation. More here . Jay Clayton has been sworn in as the US’s top spy after a contentious Senate confirmation hearing during which ⁠he refused to directly ⁠acknowledge ​that Donald Trump lost the 2020 presidential election. The oath of office was administered to Clayton on Tuesday by the treasury secretary, Scott Bessent, in the Oval Office as the president looked on and applauded. More here . An attorney for the former Olympic canoeist who was charged with vandalizing the Lincoln Memorial reflecting pool has said that “all options are on table” for legal recourse after prosecutors recently abandoned the case abruptly. David Hearn “has a number of potential remedies” after being prosecuted in connection with pool damage now attributed to faulty work by a contractor, attorney Steven Levin said in a statement. More here . A New York law banning US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents from wearing face coverings and requiring that they wear visible identification has been put on hold by a federal judge. But a state law prohibiting cooperation between local police departments and ICE has been allowed to stand. More here . Share 19m ago 17.42 EDT Max Miller: leaked private photos of his daughter 'taken very much out of context' Answering whether the release of a link containing private photographs of his daughter was reckless, Max Miller said that the incident “is being taken very much out of context.” “This is once again a very salacious headline,” Miller said. “I didn’t do this. My attorney took full responsibility. I believe that it’s awful. There was never any intent to do that.” Miller was also pressed by Jake Tapper on whether he believed the three women accusing him of violent behavior were all lying. “For no second am I going to sit here and continue to be debased by false and baseless allegations and be pushed out of a seat I have worked so hard to represent and done a terrific job for our community,” Miller said. “I’ve been a good legislator. All they’re trying to do is create rumor mills without evidence.” Asked whether he would consider dropping out of the race for the sake of his own mental health and his daughter’s well-being, Miller said he is “never going to give up.” “My daughter is going to grow up one day, and she’s going to see all of this, and she’s not going to see that her father caved to political and social media pressures,” Miller said. Share Updated at 17.47 EDT 44m ago 17.18 EDT In an interview with CNN’s Jake Tapper, embattled Ohio representative Max Miller rejected claims from Senator Bernie Moreno (his former father-in-law) that Miller withheld his daughter’s favorite stuffed toy during a custody exchange. “I would agree that if that were true, that would be incredibly disturbing,” Miller told Tapper on Tuesday. “This is nothing more than an individual who’s being politically vindictive.” Moreno has called for Miller to withdraw from his re-election bid amid allegations of domestic abuse and seek professional help. On Tuesday, he described the experience as “truly the seventh level of hell” for his family. Share 1h ago 17.06 EDT Maya Yang An instructor at the University of Maryland, Baltimore who only just received a “teacher of the year” award has been arrested by federal immigration agents under the command of the Trump administration . Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials detained Berhanu Kibret , an instructor at the university’s pharmacy school, at the Dallas-Fort Worth airport in Texas, according to multiple news reports. The US Department of Homeland Security (DHS), which oversees ICE, confirmed Kibret’s arrest, citing an expired visa – but it stopped short of providing a location. In a statement, the University of Maryland said Kibret was arrested while returning from a meeting of the American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy, where he received a “teacher of the year” award. “Dr Kibret has a valid work authorization, so it is our hope that any issues surrounding his status will be quickly resolved and that he will be permitted to continue his work at the University of Maryland School of Pharmacy,” the institution added, according to CBS. University of Maryland ‘teacher of the year’ detained by ICE in Texas Read more Share 1h ago 16.33 EDT The Associated Press is reporting that the Trump administration has revoked the visa of Brazil’s ambassador to the United States in retaliation for Brazil’s denial of visas last month for two American diplomats who sought to visit the country ahead of upcoming elections as well as Brazil’s stalling on approving President Donald Trump’s nominee to be ambassador in Brazil. The state department said the decision was a reciprocal response to Brazil’s move and officials said the step had been delayed several times to give Brazilian president Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva room to back down, something he did not do. Officials said it could be quickly reversed if Brazil takes appropriate action and accepts Trump’s ambassadorial choice. Lula will face senator Flávio Bolsonaro , whose father once served as Brazil’s president and whose family has many ties with the Trump administration, in the 4 October polls. The administration has numerous issues with the leftist Lula and his policies and has also hosted the younger Bolsonaro, who is seeking to carry on his father, Jair’s, conservative governance. Share 2h ago 16.00 EDT Joseph Gedeon reporting from Michigan: While outside a voting site in Dearborn, a confident Abdul El-Sayed not only believes he will win the primary, but has his sights set on Republican opponent Mike Rogers , predicting he “will beat [Rogers] by seven” in November. He called Rogers “generationally boring and generationally corrupt” adding that he “can’t decide what era of Republicanism he wants to be, so he carries the baggage of both.” “I’m hoping that that all of the senators who want to see a [Democratic] majority are going to team up, so we can all collectively dunk on Mike Rogers” he told reporters. View image in fullscreen Abdul El-Sayed talks to reporters near the polling place in Dearborn, Michigan. Photograph: Julia Demaree Nikhinson/AP Share 2h ago 15.56 EDT Nick Robins-Early The Trump administration is reportedly drafting a ban on US imports of new models of Chinese datacenter components, in the latest sign US authorities are scrambling to respond to the rapid development of AI technology in China. Four people familiar with the matter told Reuters that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), which oversees the US ⁠telecommunications industry, is developing a measure to bar imports of new ​Chinese optical transceivers, which allow data to travel over fiber-optic cables at the speed of light within datacenters. Officials hope to publish the measure this year, according to Reuters. The FCC could still modify or shelve the restriction, Reuters reported. But the deliberations are the latest example the Trump administration is increasingly focused on limiting Chinese technological incursions into cutting-edge US industries. Trump administration reportedly drafting ban on Chinese datacenter components Read more Share 3h ago 15.11 EDT Ex-Olympian weighing ‘all options’ after reflecting pool charges dropped Edward Helmore An attorney for the former Olympic canoeist who was charged with vandalizing the Lincoln Memorial reflecting pool has said that “all options are on table” for legal recourse after prosecutors recently abandoned the case abruptly. David Hearn “has a number of potential remedies” after being prosecuted in connection with pool damage now attributed to faulty work by a contractor, attorney Steven Levin said in a statement. Levin added that those could include “civil suits, bar referrals for the prosecutors involved, request for sanctions and reimbursement of attorneys’ fees and expenses”, and requests for investigations by various government entities, including Congress. Hearn, 67, was arrested on 19 June and faced one felony count of property destruction – a charge that could have resulted in a 10-year prison sentence and a $1,000 fine – which he denied. Ex-Olympian weighing ‘all options’ after reflecting pool charges dropped Read more Share 3h ago 15.01 EDT Senate majority leader John Thune was asked about embattled House representative Max Miller, who is the ex-son-in-law of Republican senator Bernie Moreno. “It’s a family matter and, um, I don’t have any observations beyond that,” Thune said. When asked by a reporter about whether a member of Congress who is accused of domestic violence should continue to serve in their role, the Republican leader said: “It’s a House matter. It’s a family issue too.” Share 3h ago 14.37 EDT House committee launches investigation into Republican lawmaker amid domestic abuse allegations The House ethics committee announced Tuesday it will launch an investigation into allegations that Max Miller “may have engaged in domestic violence and abuse or illegal drug use in violation of the code of official conduct or any other applicable standard of conduct”. The announcement comes hours after the embattled Republican from Ohio said he had “nothing to hide” and welcomed the investigation. Share 4h ago 14.20 EDT Senator Moreno: dealing with Max Miller dispute 'truly the seventh level of hell' Senator Bernie Moreno told reporters that the dispute between his daughter, Emily Moreno , and her ex-husband, Representative Max Miller , has been “truly the seventh level of hell.” “This has been a horrific experience for my entire family,” the Ohio senator said. Senator Moreno feared what could happen to his granddaughter, especially after Miller’s attorney accidentally released a private image of Miller’s child in documents shared by the congressman. “This has been brutal beyond comprehension, and if there’s any minimum standard for being an elected official, as I said, he fails to meet that minimum basic standard,” senator Moreno said. Senator Moreno said he had to handle the pickup of his two-year-old granddaughter over the weekend at a police station because he didn’t “want my daughter interacting with this man” and “I don’t know what this guy’s capable of.” Share Updated at 14.27 EDT 1 of 3 Next Oldest Oldest Explore more on these topics Republicans US politics live Donald Trump US midterm elections 2026 Michigan Democrats Ohio Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)