Trend of the week // Things worth the money // 17.07 Subscribe Sign in Trend of the week // Things worth the money // 17.07 Each week we spotlight a social trend worth paying attention to, break down what’s driving it, and how to jump on (without forcing it). Under The Influence Jul 17, 2026 Share Trend of the Week: “Things that are worth the money” has become the internet’s latest list go to! Creators are sharing lists of things they genuinely think justify the price. Some are straightforward product recommendations, while my personal favourites mix “accessible” purchases (like the Hatch alarm clock) with essentials like sertraline and therapy 🫠 The format is evolving already too, with creators putting their own spin on it depending on their lifestyle, job, or niche. Similar to a traditional haul, it’s a glimpse into how someone chooses to spend their money. The best item I’ve seen appear on a list so far has got to be ant remover. Why it’s trending: Commercialism final boss! We’re living through the collision of financial anxiety and little treat culture. People have less disposable income, but they still want to buy things, therefore everyone wants to know what’s actually worth spending money on. The format also does something that’s always performs well - it reveals personality. The products someone recommends tell you a lot about who they are, which drives curiosity (watch time) and conversation and debate (comments). (It also reveals what tax bracket your favourite creator is in). Some numbers: “5 things worth the money” has been searched 312K times this week “Purchases worth the money” has been searched 173K times this week “Things worth spending money on” has been searched 266k times this week #worththemoney has 15.4k videos How to adapt for brands & creators: Jump on the trend, but make it specific to your audience. Instead of just “Things worth the money” , use community callouts like: 5 things I think are worth the money as a first-time mum ...as a uni student with no disposable income ...if you work from home ...for people with curly hair Brands can do the same by adapting the format to their category or consumers instead of making it all about their own products: A beauty brand: “5 products our customers say are worth every penny.” A supermarket: “ 5 things under £10 our staff always buy.” A travel brand: “Upgrades that are actually worth paying for.” A retailer: “5 purchases our community says they’d buy again and again” And keep an eye on the conversations!! If your product makes someone's list, that's a reactive content opportunity (Shark, Dyson, Kerastase, Skims, Hatch, K18… I’ve seen ya’ll mentioned a thousand times already). Pls comment your 5 things so we can be nosey 💸 Thanks for reading! Subscribe for free to receive new posts and support our work 💞 Subscribe Share Discussion about this post Comments Restacks Top Latest Discussions No posts Ready for more? Subscribe © 2026 Under The Influence · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start your Substack Get the app Substack is the home for great culture