Canadian Open: Cameron Norrie saves match point to beat Alex de Minaur, Aryna Sabalenka through - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Tennis Scores & Schedule Quizzes Calendar Norrie saves match point in superb Montreal fightback Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Cameron Norrie has won six of his past seven matches Published 3 hours ago Britain's Cameron Norrie saved a match point as he produced a superb fightback to beat world number seven Alex de Minaur at the Canadian Open. Norrie was a set and 5-2 down against the Australian third seed before coming through 5-7 7-6 (7-5) 6-1 to reach the fourth round. De Minaur, leading by a double-break, had a match point on his own serve in the second set but double-faulted. He twice served for the match but, at 5-4 up, double-faulted again to put the set back on level terms. World number 37 Norrie edged the tie-break and then ran away with the deciding set to complete victory in two hours and 52 minutes. "It was a great match to win and to test my level, and I can take so much confidence from this one," the 30-year-old said. "The level was so high the first two sets. "From the beginning, [de Minaur] came out firing and I had to match it." Norrie - who reached the Los Cabos semi-finals last week - will face France's Arthur Fils for a place in the quarter-finals. De Minaur's exit means that fifth seed Ben Shelton is the only top-10 men's player remaining in Montreal. World number one Jannik Sinner and third-ranked Novak Djokovic withdrew before the tournament began, while top seed Alexander Zverev lost his first match. Sixth-ranked Daniil Medvedev, seventh seed Taylor Fritz and world number nine Flavio Cobolli also all lost in the second round. Tearful Draper struggles during comeback defeat Published 2 days ago 114 days and counting - how damaging is Alcaraz's wrist injury? Published 21 hours ago In the WTA 1000 event, which takes place in Toronto, world number one Aryna Sabalenka continued her strong hard-court record to reach the fourth round. Sabalenka has lost just once in 26 hard-court matches this season - in January's Australian Open final against Elena Rybakina. The Belarusian beat China's Zhang Shuai 6-3 6-4 and will face 16th seed Ekaterina Alexandrova of Russia next. Seventh seed Iga Swiatek beat Viktorija Golubic 6-2 6-1 in just 66 minutes to set up a meeting with Ukraine's Marta Kostyuk. Kostyuk, who beat Swiatek in the French Open fourth round in June, dismantled Madison Keys 6-3 6-1. Third seed Jessica Pegula claimed her 40th match win of the season as she beat Kamilla Rakhimova 6-4 6-0 either side of a rain delay. Eight of the top-10 players are still in the women's event. Wimbledon champion and sixth seed Linda Noskova lost in the second round, while seventh-ranked Karolina Muchova missed the event with injury. Related topics Tennis More on this story Live scores, results and order of play Get tennis news sent straight to your phone Published 8 June Shorts Previous Next 0:44 Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup. 00:00:44, play video Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup 0:44 Why have Real Madrid signed Diomande? 00:00:44, play video Why have Real Madrid signed Diomande? 1:06 Athletes should speak up if they're struggling - Muirhead. 00:01:06, play video Athletes should speak up if they're struggling - Muirhead 1:25 Rangers guilty of beating ourselves - McInnes. 00:01:25, play video Rangers guilty of beating ourselves - McInnes 1:26 Poor first-half 'killed' Hearts - Vrancken. 00:01:26, play video Poor first-half 'killed' Hearts - Vrancken 1:11 The incredible story of Yan Diomande. 00:01:11, play video The incredible story of Yan Diomande 0:57 Curran and Ahmed still in England Test plans - North. 00:00:57, play video Curran and Ahmed still in England Test plans - North 0:32 Thousands welcome World Cup hero Vozinha in Chile. 00:00:32, play video Thousands welcome World Cup hero Vozinha in Chile 1:19 Afghan women's team can play again after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team can play again after ban 0:41 Rush emotional at exhibition honouring career. 00:00:41, play video Rush emotional at exhibition honouring career 1:20 Memes, burgers and Danny Dyer - British runners come clean. 00:01:20, play video Memes, burgers and Danny Dyer - British runners come clean 0:39 How Smalling went from A-levels to Premier League. 00:00:39, play video How Smalling went from A-levels to Premier League 1:22 Be your 'biggest cheerleader' - positive advice from Amy Hunt. 00:01:22, play video Be your 'biggest cheerleader' - positive advice from Amy Hunt 0:25 'I've been really impressed with him' - Arteta on O'Neill. 00:00:25, play video 'I've been really impressed with him' - Arteta on O'Neill 0:46 Chelsea's 16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli. 00:00:46, play video Chelsea's 16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli Top stories Mexico break ranks to join Argentina in backing Infantino Published 1 hour ago England footballer Toney charged with assault in Soho Published 35 minutes ago Live . Transfer latest: Barcelona move ahead of Real in race for Rodri 3719 viewing 3.7k viewing Elsewhere on the BBC 'I said maybeeee...' Aviation is being reimagined for the changing planet A new high-stakes thriller crackling with danger Did Fenners score the first ever goal at the new Wembley Stadium? Elsewhere in Sport Who will leave Chelsea? How Blues could cut 41-man squad Doku's new deal, Gonzalez to stay - what's latest on Man City transfers? Spirit eliminated after losing fiery match against MI London. Video Spirit eliminated after losing fiery match against MI London Why Real are happy to pay £120m for raw genius of Diomande Weekly sports quiz: Beckham at the Commonwealth Games? Newcastle appoint Jaissle - what should fans expect? Lines to be first British woman in America's Cup team for 90 years How Buttler became T20 cricket's run-scoring GOAT Why Liverpool are ready to make Barcola third £100m signing No WSL experience but who is new Man Utd boss Olid? Why £1m-a-season deal will be hard for Pollock and Hearn to find A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season Why we are still waiting for the 'Newey effect' - F1 Q&A The ex-sandwich maker who cycles to Champions League games Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.