7 more beluga whales arrive in Texas as international relocation effort continues - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Cyberattacks World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War Cyberattacks World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News U.S. 7 more beluga whales arrive in Texas as international relocation effort continues By Jared Ochacher Jared Ochacher Multi-skilled Journalist Jared Ochacher covers national breaking news at CBS News. He is based in New York City. Read Full Bio Jared Ochacher August 5, 2026 / 8:11 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google SeaWorld San Antonio welcomed seven more beluga whales on Tuesday, the latest development in the international effort to relocate dozens of the mammals from a shuttered Canadian theme park. The group of females – Xena, Gemini, Skyla, Meeka, Eve, Neva and Calypso – was the second to leave Marineland, and marked the largest beluga transfer ever completed in the United States. "We are so happy that all went well and the second transport of this huge rescue effort is complete," said Steve Aibel, SeaWorld San Antonio's vice president of zoological operations. The latest arrivals are acclimating to their new home in a private habitat away from public view, where caretakers are monitoring their health and behavior. "They are receiving veterinary care, nutrition and attention as they acclimate to their new environment," Aibel added. Aibel was among the caretakers who joined the more than 1,200-pound animals on their journey from Marineland. The trip required specialized, water-filled transport units and rides on flatbed trucks and a cargo plane. The seven whales joined Frankie and Bertie Botts, who completed the same nearly 2,000-mile journey from Niagara Falls to San Antonio during the first relocation last month . Four other whales from that transport were brought to the Shedd Aquarium in Chicago. The two males are adjusting well, according to caretakers at SeaWorld, and are slowly being introduced to the existing whales at the park. Marineland closed to the public in 2024 but has remained in possession of the animals, which it has said it lacks the resources to continue caring for. Around a year after closing, the park said it would have no choice but to euthanize them if a relocation plan or additional funding was not secured. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration issued relocation approvals in July to ensure the belugas receive medical treatment and care that is not otherwise available, saying that "there are no other facilities in Canada that are able to provide the whales husbandry or medical care." Seventeen whales remain at Marineland and are expected to be moved to aquariums in Georgia, Chicago, San Diego and Spain, though officials have not announced a timeline. More from CBS News Family "forever grateful" after 10-year-old rescued from rip current by teen lifeguard Baby "cocaine hippo" linked to infamous drug lord is rescued in Colombia Ariana Grande pulls out of musical over "endless, ongoing public scrutiny" Pirro brought box of evidence to show Trump what caused Reflecting Pool damage Go deeper with The Free Press America’s Incredible Rescue of Its Downed Airmen in Iran and Trump’s Strategic Options Ahead This Week in Canada: The U.S. Still Needs Our Oil In: San Antonio Texas Whales © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. More beluga whales arrive in Texas More beluga whales arrive in Texas as international rescue effort continues 01:03 More beluga whales arrive in Texas as international rescue effort continues (01:03) Family "forever grateful" after 10-year-old rescued from rip current by teen lifeguard Baby "cocaine hippo" linked to infamous drug lord is rescued in Colombia Ariana Grande pulls out of musical over "endless, ongoing public scrutiny" America’s Incredible Rescue of Its Downed Airmen in Iran and Trump’s Strategic Options Ahead Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue