Man charged in Washington state with starting largest wildfire in the area | Washington state | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness A view of a neighborhood burned by the Old Trails fire in Spokane, Washington on 3 August 2026. Photograph: David Ryder/Reuters View image in fullscreen A view of a neighborhood burned by the Old Trails fire in Spokane, Washington on 3 August 2026. Photograph: David Ryder/Reuters Washington state Man charged in Washington state with starting largest wildfire in the area Suspect had a prior conviction for reportedly shooting his father in Arizona, after he told his son to do the dishes Richard Luscombe Tue 4 Aug 2026 16.52 EDT First published on Tue 4 Aug 2026 09.25 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Authorities on Monday charged a man in Washington state with starting a wildfire that has consumed almost 4,000 acres and forced tens of thousands from their homes. Aaron Farinacci, 37, of Spokane, was arrested and charged with first-degree arson for setting the Old Trails fire, the largest of three devastating wildfires burning through the region. He was found in possession of waterproof matches and a butane lighter – and was identified by witnesses who spotted him kneeling in grass close to where the blaze began over the weekend. At a press conference on Monday night, John Nowels, the Spokane county sheriff, said Farinacci had been apprehended quickly. “As it happens in so many critical cases, it was citizens who were paying attention to their surroundings, being aware and willing to step up and say something that led to the relatively quick apprehension of Mr Farinacci,” Nowels said. “This was fantastic, very quick work by everybody involved.” Nowels also offered details of the suspect, including that he had a prior conviction in Arizona for manslaughter. According to the Phoenix New Times, the victim was Farinacci’s father, who was shot and killed at their Mesa home in 2010, reportedly after telling his son to do the dishes. Farinacci was later found injured by a self-inflicted gunshot wound. Farinacci, then aged 21, pleaded guilty in 2012 to manslaughter and aggravated assault. A judge found he was mentally fit to assist in his own defense, though defense lawyer Jose Colon continued to raise questions about his mental health and said that he had been hospitalized multiple times for psychiatric treatment, court records show. Beth Farinacci, who had married Aaron Farinacci’s father, said second-degree murder, not manslaughter, would have been a more appropriate way to resolve that case. “Manslaughter is for when someone accidentally kills another person. It is not for someone who intentionally points a loaded gun at their father and shoots him in his face and back,” she wrote in a letter to the judge. It was also reported that Aaron Farinacci had been contacted by police twice before during fire investigations. Spokane police responded to reports of several fires on 8 July 2025, near Farinacci’s apartment. The area near the Spokane River involved several “bus-sized” fires and prompted a significant emergency response, according to a police record. The Washington state patrol made contact with Farinacci the following month while pursuing a suspect in a wildfire at Riverside state park. They found him on a park bench, “seemingly out of breath from possibly running”. They took photos of him. He was wearing a green T-shirt just like the one he was seen wearing on Saturday, the document says. Farinacci was expected to make his first court appearance Tuesday, Nowels said, as crews continued to battle the fires that have expanded across the county. The Old Trails fire started Saturday north-west of downtown Spokane. The blaze jumped the Spokane river and ripped through neighborhoods that some residents were able to return to on Monday. “There’s nothing to save,” said Miriam Sim, 76, as she and her husband, Daniel Sim, surveyed the ruined home where they had lived since 2005. In one Spokane neighborhood, blackened vehicles, a boat twisted by the heat and melted plastic recycling bins remained. Across the street, lawns were still green and houses were spared, as residents continued to run hoses or sprinklers to water their properties. More than 67,000 people were told to evacuate the three fires – Old Trail, Autumn Lane and Fairview – that by early Tuesday had burned about 16 sq miles (41 sq km) of Spokane, although orders in some areas were downgraded late on Monday. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Around 2-3 times a day Sign up to Breaking News US Get the most important news as it breaks Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion Elsewhere across the state, where extreme high temperatures and a fourth year of drought conditions have taken hold, there were at least 15 wildfires burning, covering at least 390 sq miles. Washington state’s entire congressional delegation wrote to Donald Trump on Monday urging the president to approve an expedited emergency declaration. Bob Ferguson, the state’s Democratic governor, said he spoke to the White House over the weekend after making his own emergency declaration. “Hundreds of people have completely lost their homes and farms, and many are prohibited from returning to their homes or neighborhoods as crews continue to extinguish smoldering embers,” the politicians’ letter said. No deaths or major injuries have been reported, although Cpl Mark Gregory, a spokesperson for the Spokane sheriff’s office, said Monday that 14 remained unaccounted for. They were, he said, probably people who had not been in contact since evacuating and were not truly missing or in danger. More than 1,000 firefighters, many from out of state, arrived by Monday to help tackle the blazes, a number expected to double in the coming days, authorities said. Crews continued to fight the fires by land and air, with Nowels warning the public during the Monday press conference not to interfere with aerial operations by using drones. A bulletin issued by the National Weather Service (NWS)’s Spokane office on Tuesday morning warned that challenging conditions would persist through the remainder of the week. “Extensive amounts of smoke will continue over the region, maintaining unhealthy air quality,” it said. “Dry conditions and breezy winds increase Friday and Saturday across portions of central Washington, bringing elevated fire weather conditions.” Hundreds of homes, businesses, and other structures have been destroyed in what Dave Upthegrove, Washington’s commissioner of public lands, called “an extraordinary wildfire season across the Pacific northwest”. The Associated Press contributed to this report Explore more on these topics Washington state West Coast Wildfires news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)