Gaza health chief urges action to ‘save’ Dr Abu Safia before it’s too late | Israel-Palestine conflict News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up Navigation menu Israel-Palestine conflict Shackled, bleeding, raped: Abuse in Israeli prisons ‘This is an apartheid regime’ Does Trump have real leverage over Netanyahu? History of flotilla campaigns News | Israel-Palestine conflict Gaza health chief urges action to ‘save’ Dr Abu Safia before it’s too late Fears mount for life of Hussam Abu Safia detained by Israel amid reports of torture and lack of medical care. Listen (4 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google People lift placards bearing portraits of Palestinians detained by Israel, including Hussam Abu Safia, during a protest in solidarity with them in Ramallah, occupied West Bank [File: Zain Jaafar/AFP] By Al Jazeera Staff Published On 8 Aug 2026 8 Aug 2026 The director general of Gaza’s Ministry of Health has called for urgent action to “save” the life of detained Palestinian doctor Hussam Abu Safia before it is “too late”. The paediatrician has been held by Israel since 2024 and “serious concerns are mounting” over his life and health, Dr Muneer al-Boursh posted on X on Saturday. Recommended Stories list of 3 items list 1 of 3 Israel killing Lebanese journalist Amal Khalil a ‘war crime’: rights groups list 2 of 3 Return of goods to markets in Gaza doesn’t mean people can afford them list 3 of 3 Travel restrictions – from Israel and Europe – trap students in Gaza end of list He noted reports that Abu Safia has been assaulted while in an Israeli detention facility and has sustained injuries to his eye, head and chest. Abu Safia’s ongoing detention and lack of medical care have made his health condition a “source of extreme alarm that demands urgent action not postponed statements,” al-Boursh added. Abu Safia was the director of Kamal Adwan Hospital who led the facility, one of the last functioning in northern Gaza, through an 85-day siege before Israeli forces raided it and detained him on December 27, 2024. He has been held without charge under Israel’s unlawful combatant law, which permits indefinitely renewable detention; Israel’s supreme court rejected an appeal for his release in June. His lawyer, who visited him last month, reported new signs of beatings and torture. Rights groups, including Amnesty International and the United Nations Commission of Inquiry, have warned that his life is in imminent danger. Al-Boursh said the “irony” of Abu Safia’s detention “is agonising”. “Dr Hussam Abu Safia, who stayed by his patients’ side at Kamal Adwan Hospital in the bleakest of circumstances, now finds himself behind bars, stripped of his freedom, as fears grow for his physical safety and detention conditions.” he wrote. Advertisement “We hold the [Israeli] occupation authorities fully responsible for his life and safety, and we demand an urgent, independent and comprehensive medical examination for him, ensuring he receives the necessary treatment,” al-Boursh added. The ministry chief urged “freedom” for Abu Safia and all healthcare workers detained by Israel. He also called on the Red Cross, the World Health Organization, the UN and medical and human rights groups to take action. Israel ‘has not adhered to ceasefire’ The appeal came as Al Jazeera correspondents reported a sharp deterioration throughout Gaza’s health sector, nearly 10 months into a “ceasefire” that Israel continues to breach on a near-daily basis. On Saturday, three Palestinians were injured by Israeli army fire north of Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip, reported the Palestinian news agency Wafa. Israeli forces had also carried out extensive demolition operations south of the city since this morning, while military vehicles continued firing east of Salah al-Din Street near the Wadi Gaza Bridge in the centre of the enclave. “The Israeli occupation has not adhered to the terms of the ceasefire, nor even to the protocol attached to this ceasefire,” said Al Jazeera’s Noor Khaled, reporting from Gaza City. She added that the Israeli-controlled “yellow” zones now cover more than 70 percent of the Strip, leaving Palestinians confined to less than 30 percent – most of it destroyed. Crossings remain largely closed and around 20,000 patients were waiting to be evacuated for treatment abroad, Khaled added. Of the 600 aid trucks which should deliver daily, “what enters does not exceed 250 trucks.” From Deir al-Balah, correspondent Ashraf Abu Amra said Nasser Hospital had reported “three to four patients dying daily due to the shortage of medicines and medical supplies”. Last week, Israeli forces destroyed a medical supply warehouse serving nearly half a million people in a direct strike near Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital. Ajith Sunghay, head of the UN human rights office in the occupied Palestinian territories, told Al Jazeera that Gaza’s health system was among the hardest hit. “It will take generations” for Palestinians in Gaza to recover from the trauma and loss, he said. He warned that malnutrition, collapsing shelter and lack of safe drinking water could not be tackled while the entry of dual-use materials remained blocked by Israel. Gaza’s Health Ministry said hospitals received two people who had died of their wounds and six injured in the past 24 hours. The latest casualties increased the death toll since last October’s “ceasefire” to 1,257 and 4,131 wounded. In total, Israel’s genocidal war on Gaza has killed more than 73,000 Palestinians since October 2023. Advertisement Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network