Copper jumps to its highest level ever. What the metal is telling us Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Markets Copper jumps to its highest level ever. What the metal is telling us Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 3:51 PM EDT Updated 2 Hours Ago Deena Zaidi WATCH LIVE Key Points Copper hit a record high, but the rally appears to reflect tight supply and disruptions more than a broad acceleration in global growth. Electrification, power-grid investment and AI-related infrastructure are supporting demand. The result of the demand and supply story means “Dr. Copper” may not be a good indicator of economic health this time. In this article @HG.1 Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT An open-pit copper mine at Asarco's Mission Mine Complex in Sahuarita, Arizona, US, on Friday, March 6, 2026. Rebecca Noble | Bloomberg | Getty Images Copper surged to a record high Thursday, but the latest rally comes against a more mixed growth backdrop, making the once-reliable gauge of economic health, "Dr. Copper," harder to read. U.S. copper futures climbed to around $6.90 a pound Thursday, extending a rally in a metal used for construction, electronics, transportation and even AI applications. It then retreated to end the session after touching the new high. But instead of simply indicating stronger global growth, today's record price could be reflecting a combination of constrained supply, heavy grid investment, uncertainty around U.S. tariffs and rising demand for electrification. In the past, the metal was seen as a gauge on whether global economic activity was ramping up. "The underpinning story of elevated copper prices has been data center and power grid demand to support the rapid AI industry expansion," William Osnato, Barchart director of commodity data research and analysis, told CNBC in an email, adding that surge in copper demand is "more acute and not the traditional broad economic growth that supports copper." Copper's price surge is also due to its limited supply and mining it is an expensive business and setting up new mines can take about 10 years, which can also slow down supply of the red metal. Michael Widmer, Bank of America's head of metals research told CNBC that the move wasn't really driven by copper demand but really driven by copper supply. Widmer said there is not a lot of mine supply growth and supply disruptions have been creating additional constraints. Mine growth has been weak, with disruptions in Chile , the world's biggest single copper producer. Heavy snow, rainfall and high winds have disrupted mining operations in the region. Potential U.S. Section 232 tariffs and China's crackdown on the availability of scrap copper have also tightened global supplies in 2026. Last year in June, President Donald Trump signed a proclamation to impose 50% tariffs on imports of semi-finished copper products and copper-intensive derivative products. Demand for copper has remained firm and is also closely tied to increased electrification rather than an economic boom. In the first half of this year, China's grid investment was up 13% year over year and the country recently announced an ambitious plan to invest approximately $574 billion in power grid upgrades. Thursday's move, however, came only after the news that Democratic Republic of Congo was officially banning copper and cobalt concentrates exports to encourage more domestic processing. Osnato said supply disruptions have been pushing consumers to pull metal out of London Metal Exchange warehouses and this is driving up refining costs. "It is definitely a new situation for Dr. Copper," he said. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by