Eva Olid: Man Utd set to appoint ex-Hearts boss as new women's manager - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Football Scores & Fixtures Tables World Cup Follow Your Team Pre-Season Fixtures Gossip Transfers Women European Leagues & Cups Quizzes Man Utd to name ex-Hearts boss Olid women's manager Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Eva Olid guided Hearts to their first Scottish league title last season By Simon Stone , Chief football news reporter and Adwaidh Rajan , BBC Sport journalist Published 2 hours ago Manchester United are set to name former Hearts boss Eva Olid as their women's manager. BBC Sport understands the Spaniard, 40, will meet the United squad on Wednesday as the club finalise her appointment after Marc Skinner left the role by mutual consent on Monday - a month before the start of the Women's Super League (WSL) season. Olid left Hearts this summer , having guided the Scottish Women's Premier League (SWPL) club to their first league title last campaign. She joined Hearts in 2021 and signed an extension until the summer of 2026 with the option of a further year, but the club announced in April that Olid was to leave at the end of the season by mutual agreement. Olid also guided the Edinburgh side to their first domestic final, but lost to Rangers in the 2024 Scottish Cup. Hearts finished fourth in back-to-back seasons under Olid before dropping to fifth in 2024-25. But they finished two points clear of Rangers to win their first silverware last term. Have Man Utd lost faith in their women's team? Published 1 day ago Toone grateful to Skinner after his Man Utd departure Published 8 hours ago Man Utd's George closing in on Brighton move Published 12 hours ago Skinner left United after five years in charge, having led them to their first major trophy with victory in the Women's FA Cup final in 2024. He also helped them reach the Women's Champions League group stage for the first time last year, while they finished runners-up in three domestic cup finals. The former Birmingham City head coach has raised concerns over a lack of investment in the squad and United have had a quiet summer. United have changed their recruitment approach this year, targeting younger players in the hope of securing sustainable, long-term success. Sources at the club had said one of the key requirements for Skinner's replacement is a coach with a history of developing players. United will begin their WSL season at London City Lionesses on 4 September . Find interviews and extra content from the Women's Super League and beyond on the Women's Football Weekly feed Related topics Women's Football Football Women's Super League Scottish Women's Football More on this story Get the latest WSL news on our dedicated page Shorts Previous Next 1:29 Could Pollock be paid £1m a season? It's complicated... 00:01:29, play video Could Pollock be paid £1m a season? It's complicated... 0:27 Maresca very similar to Pep - Foden. 00:00:27, play video Maresca very similar to Pep - Foden 0:41 Wenger speaks out about Infantino's World Cup plan. 00:00:41, play video Wenger speaks out about Infantino's World Cup plan 0:59 Why does a Swedish club want to pay £1m for a National League player? 00:00:59, play video Why does a Swedish club want to pay £1m for a National League player? 1:30 Goodburn's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Goodburn's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:33 Alonso on Mudryk's first day back with Chelsea squad. 00:00:33, play video Alonso on Mudryk's first day back with Chelsea squad 0:58 Aston Villa finally register signing after court battle. 00:00:58, play video Aston Villa finally register signing after court battle 0:59 Mudryk is back, but what actually happened? 00:00:59, play video Mudryk is back, but what actually happened? 0:52 Legends and fans in Milan mourn Baresi. 00:00:52, play video Legends and fans in Milan mourn Baresi Top stories Infantino calls executive meeting as criticism mounts Published 1 hour ago Turkish club Trabzonspor begin talks to sign Salah Published 10 minutes ago Drinking culture embedded in cricket - Stokes Published 9 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC Detective Lindo and the team are back in a brand new series Professor David Keith answers questions on climate engineering The chilling story of how a debt-ridden undertaker betrayed grieving families The return of the thrilling, award-winning drama about the CIA Elsewhere in Sport A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season The ex-sandwich maker who cycles to Champions League games Inside Liverpool's summer so far - should fans be worried? Have Man Utd lost faith in their women's team? How Mumbai Indians takeover has affected MI London & Surrey From European hopes to relegation form - will Moyes reignite Everton? 'Nothing is strange' - how clubs prepare for the transfer window 'No guarantees' - joyful Glasgow cannot banish all Commonwealth doubts Alonso heals Real Madrid scars to lead Chelsea's senior revolution Finucane 'screaming inside' after record-breaking Games A bruising 24 hours - what next for Fifa and under-pressure Infantino? Dog walk and expletive text - key findings in Vondrousova anti-doping case The phone call that made Briton an NFL trailblazer Five things we've learned from first half of F1 season Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.