This Olympian curbed his unhealthy porn habit - here are the signs and steps to recovery - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Health How a former GB Olympian curbed his porn problem - and the signs and steps to recovery Image caption, Former Team GB diver Freddie Woodward said he sometimes watched online porn multiple times a day By Maia Davies , Smitha Mundasad , Health reporter and Anna Crossley Published 8 August 2026, 02:34 BST Former Team GB diver Freddie Woodward was a teenager when he realised he had a problem with porn. "Every time I sat down to revise, all I wanted to do was open those sites," he revealed. By age 12, he was regularly visiting what he calls "hardcore" sites. As his career progressed - which included representing his country in the Olympics - he was watching adult content several times a day. Now aged 30, the Olympian has told the BBC how he eventually curbed his habit by shifting his mindset. "You can't be the person who is trying to quit porn. You have to be someone who doesn't watch porn, and that takes a lot of work," he said. So how can you spot when a porn habit has become unhealthy, and how can you tackle it? Although it has become a common phrase, "porn addiction" is not an officially recognised condition in its own right. "We know a lot of people have a problem with porn," explains sex and relationship psychotherapist Silva Neves, who says the matter has become more prevalent among clients at his private practice. But experts are divided as to whether it is a true "addiction" – like someone might experience with drugs, for example – and how best to deal with it. Researcher Campbell Ince, from Australia's Monash University, says the vast majority of clinicians now agree people can suffer from "problematic porn use", but there is still a lot to figure out about its causes and treatments. This means there is no definitive list of symptoms or treatments available to those worried they may be addicted. Some clinicians approach it as a compulsive sexual behaviour disorder, a condition recognised by the World Health Organization. This is sexual behaviour that "feels out of control, is causing significant distress, and despite repeated attempts to control it, they can't," explains psychotherapist Dr Paula Hall, who works privately at the Laurel Centre, a sex and porn addiction centre, and also runs a not-for-profit service. The NHS does say , external it is possible to be addicted to "just about anything", including sex. 'I didn't know how to get it to loosen its grip on me' So what are the markers of an unhealthy porn habit? Neves says it's "not about the frequency or duration, it's about the damage to your life". That might be arriving late to work because you were up all night watching porn, prioritising it above commitments to your loved ones, or watching it in the office, he says. Other crucial questions to ask yourself are whether you can actually cut back or adjust your habit when you try, and whether you carry on watching despite enjoying it less and less, adds Ince, whose research focuses on problematic porn use. For Craig, who describes himself as a recovering addict, it was this loss of control which marked a turning point during the Covid-19 pandemic, when he was in his mid-thirties. "I don't think it ever became a huge issue for me until lockdown, where that extra pressure, extra isolation, just compounded the issue. "I didn't know how to get it to loosen its grip on me," he recalls. Figure caption, Watch: 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' Ince cautions that many people may feel distress about their porn use for social, moral or religious reasons – but that this does not necessarily mean your habit is out of control. "Someone could be watching porn for five minutes, three times a week – and because they have a lot of shame, they think 'I'm an addict'," agrees Neves. "But then there might be someone who watches it every day and thinks it's fine." Hall similarly encourages clients to "get away from the idea of 'I'm either an addict or I'm not'", and focus instead on how much it is affecting things like your studies and relationships. TV presenter Ore Oduba last year spoke publicly about his 30-year-long porn addiction which began at the age of nine – saying it had been "destroying my life from the inside out". "It was the thing from a very early age that I was running to as a response to a lot of trauma", he told the We Need to Talk podcast last year, before curbing the habit. 'I couldn’t stop watching': Personal stories of how porn obsession takes over lives Published 29 November 2024 Can you be addicted to sex? Published 6 May 2018 It is not clear what might cause such behaviour, as experts say much more research is needed. "The scientific examination is certainly accelerating, but there is a very long way to go," Ince says. It might begin as something which gives you a break from other issues in your life, says Hall, such as a stressful career or relationship breakdown. There may also be "predisposing factors", such as trauma, issues from early childhood, or negative self-belief, that can make it harder to curb your use, she says. Craig, now 40, says porn became a "tool to turn to for every one of life's ups and downs". He remembers feeling he was "broken, that there was no way out", before recovery helped him to think differently. Hall also points to the impact of the digital environment and people becoming "addicted by design" through algorithms. Both she and Neves say AI-generated porn is making matters worse by enabling people to create "exactly what they want and need", as Neves describes it. 'It's one day at a time' If you are worried about your porn use, Ince recommends seeking out support from a qualified and experienced professional. A registered psychologist can be particularly helpful because they may consider your mental health more broadly, "and we know that co-occurring mental health problems are more or less the rule, rather than the exception", he says. This was the case for Craig, who did not realise his porn use may be unhealthy until he started therapy for his mental health. "Porn addiction was like a contributing factor," he came to learn. His therapist suggested he join a 12-step programme for sex addiction – a recovery model created by Alcoholics Anonymous – which he credits for his recovery. "I didn't necessarily find it easy and straightforward to step away from my addiction. I feel I'm in a good place now, but also acknowledge the fact it's one day at a time." There is currently no central, dedicated NHS service for those struggling with their porn use – although some local services offer support, and you can talk to your GP. This means treatment will more likely come from private practitioners, support groups or online self-help. Ince suggests doing thorough research to find the right fit for you, and cautions against using online resources which may offer generic advice. Some practitioners will help clients towards cutting out porn altogether, while others will help people "integrate it into their lives in a way that is functional," says Neves. Seeking to understand any underlying factors will be a crucial part of treatment, says Hall. There are some practical steps you can take yourself, she says, such as placing blocking software on your device. She also advises recognising when you might feel more susceptible to using porn – which, for some, can be when you are stressed or alone – and planning ahead for what you might do instead. But she says there should ultimately be more support on the NHS, particularly early intervention before porn can take over a person's life. A spokesperson for the Department of Health and Social Care said: "It is troubling to hear accounts of individuals becoming addicted to pornography at such a young age. "It reinforces the importance of the online safety laws we have put in place to prevent children from accessing harmful content." Related topics Health Sex The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:38 Wildfire raging in Canada's British Columbia. 00:00:38, play video Wildfire raging in Canada's British Columbia 1:02 Child among three killed in Russian missile attacks near Kyiv. 00:01:02, play video Child among three killed in Russian missile attacks near Kyiv 0:28 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update. 00:00:28, play video 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update 0:34 Timelapse shows mass balloon ascent in Bristol. 00:00:34, play video Timelapse shows mass balloon ascent in Bristol 1:17 The tech that could map every tree on earth. 00:01:17, play video The tech that could map every tree on earth 0:59 Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 00:00:59, play video Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 1:07 Riding England's longest zip wire. 00:01:07, play video Riding England's longest zip wire 1:21 How many different cubes can you make? 00:01:21, play video How many different cubes can you make? 2:01 Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape. 00:02:01, play video Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape 1:02 Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter. 00:01:02, play video Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter 1:17 What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:17, play video What we know about the Thailand school shooting 0:48 Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 00:00:48, play video Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 0:53 Are you hung up on hangers? 00:00:53, play video Are you hung up on hangers? 0:52 Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 00:00:52, play video Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 0:31 The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 00:00:31, play video The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 0:43 Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan. 00:00:43, play video Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan 0:33 Moment raiders drive car into service station. 00:00:33, play video Moment raiders drive car into service station 1:11 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 00:01:11, play video 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 0:39 How much rain will end the drought? 00:00:39, play video How much rain will end the drought? Top stories Simon Levy victims urged to come forward as police accused of 'litany of failures' Published 10 hours ago Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands Published 15 hours ago The phone book that led us to Assad's spy chief in hiding Published 22 hours ago More to explore I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock Pokémon hobby takes brothers to world championships 'We had to flee with just my daughter's clothes and dolls' Obesity rates have doubled in England since 1993 - what's going on? The 101-year-old who created a dolls' house museum with her childhood toys Artist's 'anger and frustration' with internet copycats The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC With great power comes great responsibility She's not a bad girl anymore, wink wink wink wink Can a test tell you what's living inside your gut? How much discipline is too much in school? Most read 1 Strictly dancers Ola and James Jordan separate after 23 years of marriage 2 Hormuz talks positive, Oman says, as Iran warns deal would not open strait 3 I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock 4 He's been frozen on Everest for 30 years, now 'Green Boots' may finally be coming home 5 Sturgeon hasn't spoken to Murrell since he was jailed for embezzling SNP funds 6 Digital cameras and wired earphones are back - and 'a bit more real' 7 Madonna pays tribute to 'genius, otherworldly' producer William Orbit 8 Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands 9 Simon Levy victims urged to come forward as police accused of 'litany of failures' 10 How a former GB Olympian curbed his porn problem - and the signs and steps to recovery BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.