Fed approves UBS acquisition of Credit Suisse's U.S. subsidiary | American Banker Author Subscribe Log In Banking Commercial Consumer Community Industry & People News M&A Small Business Earnings Bank Industry Data Asset Securitization Commercial Consumer Community Industry & People News M&A Small Business Earnings Bank Industry Data Asset Securitization Policy & Risk Politics & Policy Risk & Compliance Regulation Federal Reserve CFPB Fraud Politics & Policy Risk & Compliance Regulation Federal Reserve CFPB Fraud Tech Latest News Payments AI Intelligence Fintech Cryptocurrency Cyber Security Latest News Payments AI Intelligence Fintech Cryptocurrency Cyber Security Mortgage Latest News Originations Servicing Secondary Markets Opinion Resources Latest News Originations Servicing Secondary Markets Opinion Resources Wealth Latest News Practice and Client Management Opinion Advisor Intel Spotlight Resources Latest News Practice and Client Management Opinion Advisor Intel Spotlight Resources Credit Unions Latest News Lending Opinion Technology Resources Latest News Lending Opinion Technology Resources Expert Opinion Artifical Intelligence Payments Risk On-Chain Finance Policy Artifical Intelligence Payments Risk On-Chain Finance Policy Events ON-CHAIN Executive Summit Payments Forum Digital Banking Small Business Banking Women in Banking Virtual Summits All Events ON-CHAIN Executive Summit Payments Forum Digital Banking Small Business Banking Women in Banking Virtual Summits All Events LEADERS Resources Webinars & Whitepapers Tech Exchange Press Releases Webinars & Whitepapers Tech Exchange Press Releases Awards The Most Powerful Women in Banking The Best Banks to Work For The Best Credit Unions to Work For The Innovation of the Year The Most Innovative People in Finance The Most Powerful Women in Banking The Best Banks to Work For The Best Credit Unions to Work For The Innovation of the Year The Most Innovative People in Finance Follow Us linkedin facebook youtube twitter whatsapp © 2026 Arizent. All rights reserved. Sections Subscribe Log In Show Search Search Query Submit Search Banking Commercial Consumer Community Industry & People News M&A Small Business Earnings Bank Industry Data Asset Securitization Policy & Risk Politics & Policy Risk & Compliance Regulation Federal Reserve CFPB Fraud Tech Latest News Payments AI Intelligence Fintech Cryptocurrency Cyber Security Mortgage Latest News Originations Servicing Secondary Markets Opinion Resources Wealth Latest News Practice and Client Management Opinion Advisor Intel Spotlight Resources Credit Unions Latest News Lending Opinion Technology Resources Expert Opinion Artifical Intelligence Payments Risk On-Chain Finance Policy Events ON-CHAIN Executive Summit Payments Forum Digital Banking Small Business Banking Women in Banking Virtual Summits All Events LEADERS Resources Webinars & Whitepapers Tech Exchange Press Releases Awards The Most Powerful Women in Banking The Best Banks to Work For The Best Credit Unions to Work For The Innovation of the Year The Most Innovative People in Finance Market Intelligence: AI Payments Research Industry Data Regulation and compliance Fed approves UBS acquisition of Credit Suisse's U.S. subsidiary By Kyle Campbell CloseText About Kyle twitter ByKyleCampbell Published April 14, 2023, 5:04 p.m. EDT | Updated April 14, 2023, 5:22 p.m. EDT 2 Min Read Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email UBS is buying domestic rival Credit Suisse, which had appeared to be in danger of collapse before the Swiss government brokered the acquisition last month. Stefan Wermuth/Bloomberg The Federal Reserve Board of Governors approved UBS's acquisition of Credit Suisse's U.S. business on Friday afternoon. Processing Content The acquisition of Credit Suisse's New York-based holding company is part of UBS's $3.25 billion acquisition of its distressed domestic rival. The combination of the two banks was brokered by the Swiss government and the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority last month to preempt Credit Suisse's collapse. UBS's acquisition of Credit Suisse came at a tumultuous time in the global banking industry following the failures of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank. Credit Suisse had a long, well-documented history of regulatory problems and appeared to be in danger of collapse before the deal was struck. The Swiss National Bank supported the acquisition by providing liquidity to UBS on March 19. To help facilitate the transaction and provide support to other central banks around the world, the Fed enhanced its dollar liquidity swap facility that same day. UBS's acquisition of Credit Suisse will result in "more stringent enhanced prudential standards, including liquidity standards," the Fed said in a press release issued Friday. UBS's U.S. subsidiary, UBS Americas Holding, has nearly $202 billion of assets under management, according to the U.S. Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, making it the 22nd largest bank holding company in the country. As part of its approval, the Fed will allow UBS to keep the assets from Credit Suisse Holdings USA in a separate holding company for one year, after which they will have to be consolidated. Those Credit Suisse assets total more than $57 billion, according to the FFIEC. Credit Suisse's Americas business includes investment banking, private banking, corporate debt underwriting and asset management. Following the consolidation under a single holding company, UBS's U.S. operation will be upgraded from Category III to Category II under the Fed's regulatory tailoring rules. Such a change would bring with it requirements for annual company-run stress testing and "advanced approaches" to risk-based capital requirements. Upon completion of the deal, UBS will have three months to provide the Fed with a plan for how it will adapt to the new regulatory and supervisory standards that come with the change in categorization. Politics and policy Fed's Barr says stronger capital, liquidity rules needed after crisis March 28, 2023 2:15 PM By Kyle Campbell and Claire Williams UBS's implementation plan must also outline the structural organization of its consolidated U.S. operations, including whether branches will be consolidated or closed. UBS will then have to provide quarterly updates to the Fed's Board of Governors in Washington as well as to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on its progress in implementing the plan. Until the assets are combined, UBS will have to treat the two holding companies as distinct entities and will be responsible for ensuring that both meet all the regulatory requirements, the Fed noted. ﻿ Kyle Campbell Staff writer Kyle Campbell covers the Federal Reserve and housing policy for American Banker. Previously, he wrote about institutional investment in real estate... Read full bio twitter For reprint and licensing requests for this article, click here . Regulation and compliance M&A 23RD ANNUAL THE MOST POWERFUL WOMEN IN BANKING Meet The Most Powerful Women in Banking 2025, our annual ranking of the executives at the pinnacle of the industry. Download the American Banker app Follow Us googlenews twitter youtube applenews whatsapp facebook linkedin Subscription Options Enterprise Subscriptions Newsletters My Membership The Magazine RSS Feed Banker's Glossary Events About Us Privacy Policy AI Policy Subscription Agreement Content Licensing/Reprints Advertising/Marketing Services Resources Help Center Contact Us © 2026 Arizent. All rights reserved. © 2026 Arizent. All rights reserved.