Feds slash state water draws from Colorado River as drought intensifies - The Colorado Sun Close NEWSLETTERS DONATE Search for: Search News Events About Us MY ACCOUNT Podcast Get our App Colorado’s Best Instagram Bluesky YouTube Close Bluesky Facebook X Twitter Instagram Reddit Mastodon Threads LinkedIn YouTube Skip to content MY ACCOUNT Podcast Get our App Colorado’s Best Instagram Bluesky YouTube News Events About Us The Colorado Sun Telling stories that matter in a dynamic, evolving state. NEWSLETTERS DONATE Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu News events donate Posted in Business , Climate , Environment , News , Water Feds slash state water draws from Colorado River as drought intensifies First-ever shortage declaration on key western river means big losses for Arizona and Nevada. Colorado’s own time for cuts and living with less is coming soon, experts warn. by Michael Booth 4:30 PM MDT on Aug 16, 2021 Why you can trust The Colorado Sun Share this: Share Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on Threads (Opens in new window) Threads Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp The receding shoreline of Blue Mesa Reservoir, near Gunnison, Colorado, shows signs of severe drought on July 16, 2021. Because the reservoir is one of the key water storage facilities in the Colorado River Basin its water is being released to flow downstream to supplement Lake Powell. (Dean Krakel, Special to The Colorado Sun) The federal government declared a water shortage on the Colorado River for the first time since a compact between seven river basin was inked a century ago, with major 2022 water delivery cutbacks for Arizona and a lesser amount for Nevada and the nation of Mexico. But water resource experts warned Coloradans not to be smug about far-away troubles in Arizona, where central state farming methods and production will take a big hit. The duty of Upper Colorado River Basin states to continue delivering set quotas of water under the treaty is one of the next big climate change battles in the West, and it will force changes here at home. “The announcement today is a recognition that the hydrology that was planned for years ago, that we hoped we would never see, is here today,” Camille Touton, deputy commissioner for the Bureau of Reclamation, said at a news conference bringing together officials from all the compact states. “It’s really a threshold moment,” said Bart Miller, healthy rivers program director for the nonprofit Western Resource Advocates. “They are words a water manager doesn’t like hearing: unprecedented, never done this before. That short-term response is a good one, but the longer term response might be most interesting.” At the news conference Monday, the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation officially announced what its previous reports had warned was coming: Drought and climate change have drained so much water from the Lower Basin compact states’ main pool, Lake Mead, that the most junior rights on the lower river must be suspended until supplies are restored. “They will not be delivered the water,” said Tom Buschatzke, director of Arizona Department of Water Resources. “They will physically not have the water, and they will have to figure out how to deal with the ramifications of that outcome.” Arizona, with primarily junior water rights for its Central Arizona Project canals that take farm water into the desert, will lose more than 500,000 acre-feet from its projected allotment for 2022. That’s about 18% of the state’s usual allotment from the Colorado River. Nevada will lose 21,000 acre-feet, or about 7% of its planned 2022 allotment; Mexico, which has a treaty with the U.S. over Colorado River water, will lose 80,000 acre-feet, or about 5% of its annual total. Though the 22-year drought in the West prompted years of contingency planning for the river that delivers water to 40 million people, failing snowpack and dry soils that drink up runoff have forced federal regulators to speed their efforts. Total runoff this year into the Colorado River Basin will be 2.5 million acre-feet less than what federal water officials had predicted. Editor’s picks Edgewater tested a new Colorado law that changed how much tipped workers are paid. Here’s what’s happened so far. How memories were made at county fairs in northeastern Colorado this summer Colorado’s bears are hungry. And they’re dining in town. This year, Upper Basin snowpack and runoff delivered only 32% of the historical average flow into the Colorado River. That followed runoff of only 54% of average the year before, federal officials said at the news conference. Earlier this summer, another contingency move triggered by the drops at Mead and Powell included partial draining of Blue Mesa Reservoir near Gunnison to help refill Powell and keep its pool above the minimum level needed for generating hydroelectric power. Federal regulators also moved water down to Powell from Flaming Gorge Reservoir on the Wyoming-Utah border, and Navajo Reservoir straddling the Colorado-New Mexico border. All the compact states will have to contribute to solutions as the drought continues, federal and state officials warned. “We also recognize the very real possibility that the hydrology that was planned for years ago may not be the worst that the basin may see in the future,” Touton said. Another part of the compact agreement requires the Upper Basin states of Colorado, Wyoming, Utah and New Mexico as a group to deliver about 7.5 million acre-feet of water a year in a 10 year rolling average to the Lower Basin states of Nevada, Arizona and California. If they fall short, Upper Basin states must make cuts to consumption to make sure enough water makes it down the Colorado to fulfill the pact. There are a few ways Colorado and federal water managers are working on to leave more water in the river, Miller said: Improving the efficiency of agriculture — which uses 85% of the water available in Colorado — through fixing canals and ditches and moving to drip irrigation when possible. Capital costs could be funded in part by the infrastructure bill on the verge of passage by Congress, some of which was earmarked for water projects. Changing crops to those that take less water. Arizona gets criticized for using Colorado River water to irrigate cotton, alfalfa and other high-water crops in an arid climate, but most of western agriculture takes place in a high desert. Colorado farmers could switch from alfalfa and other fodder to rye or other crops. Letting water go through “demand management.” Cities have been drying up farms for their water rights for decades, raising the anger of rural Colorado. Demand management, by contrast, can rent the water from farmers for a set number of years in a given period, without drying up the land or the water rights entirely. Renting the water takes big money, though, another possible use of infrastructure stimulus. City water conservation. Front Range cities have come a long way providing household water to millions of new residents without taking more water overall, Miller said, but those efficiency gains are slowing. Still, the cities could make additional trims: Las Vegas spends large amounts buying up lawn grass and paying homeowners to keep low-water or zero-water plantings. “There’s still more there,” Miller said. Tagged: Bureau of Reclamation , climate change , Colorado River , Colorado River Compact , demand management , drought , Lake Mead , Lake Powell , snowpack , Upper Colorado River Basin , water conservation , Western Resource Advocates Michael Booth Environment Reporter booth@coloradosun.com Michael Booth is The Sun’s environment writer, and co-author of The Sun’s weekly climate and health newsletter The Temperature. He and John Ingold host the weekly SunUp podcast on The Temperature topics every Thursday. He is co-author with Jennifer Brown of the Colorado Book Award-winning food safety investigation “Eating Dangerously.”... More by Michael Booth Post navigation Previous Democratic Colorado congressman on Afghanistan: “We didn’t need to be in this position” Next Colorado secretary of state will not allow Mesa County’s clerk to oversee upcoming election Instagram Bluesky YouTube The Colorado Sun is an award-winning news outlet based in Denver that strives to cover all of Colorado so that our state — our community — can better understand itself. The Colorado Sun is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. EIN: 36-5082144 Protect your nonprofit state news. Everyone deserves to have someone looking out for them, including you. That’s why we made it our job. Donate now to defend facts and fund truth-seekers. Bluesky Facebook X Instagram Reddit Mastodon Threads LinkedIn YouTube (720) 263-2338 Got a story tip? Drop us a note at tips@coloradosun.com Follow The Sun How to Support The Sun Contact Us Sponsorship Newsletters Events Podcast Topics Business Crime and Courts Education Energy Environment Health Housing Outdoors Opinion Politics SunLit View All Info About Us Editorial Standards and Policies Ethics Policy Corrections DEI Commitment How We’re Funded Jobs Support FAQs Store RSS © 2026 The Colorado Sun Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Gift this article Close Link Copy link