SpaceX shows strong growth in its first earnings report since going public - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Spokane Wildfires World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds MoneyWatch | Managing Your Money CBS News Price Tracker Watch CBS News MoneyWatch SpaceX shows strong growth in its first earnings report since going public By Aimee Picchi , Aimee Picchi Associate Managing Editor, MoneyWatch Aimee Picchi is the associate managing editor for CBS MoneyWatch, where she covers business and personal finance. She previously worked at Bloomberg News and has written for national news outlets including USA Today and Consumer Reports. Read Full Bio Aimee Picchi , Megan Cerullo Megan Cerullo Reporter, MoneyWatch Megan Cerullo is a New York-based reporter for CBS MoneyWatch covering small business, workplace, health care, consumer spending and personal finance topics. She regularly appears on CBS News 24/7 to discuss her reporting. Read Full Bio Megan Cerullo Updated on: August 4, 2026 / 6:08 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google SpaceX on Tuesday reported booming revenue and shrinking losses in its first quarterly earnings report as a publicly traded company, offering a window into its performance after executing the biggest ever initial public offering in June. Elon Musk's rocket, satellite and AI provider reported second-quarter revenue of $7.8 billion and a net loss of $541 million, improving on a loss of $1 billion in the year-ago period. Analysts had forecast revenue of $6.8 billion for the quarter, according to FactSet. "All three of the main business units reported revenue ahead of the consensus, including Space, Connectivity and AI," market analyst Adam Crisafulli, head of Vital Knowledge, said in a research note. Analysts were closely watching subscriber growth for Starlink, given that the satellite division is the company's largest revenue segment. Total revenues in the connectivity unit were $4.3 billion for the quarter, surpassing FactSet analysts' estimate of $3.8 billion as Starlink's subscribers doubled to 12 million, from 6 million in the year-ago quarter. Musk touted Starlink's rapid growth in a call with Wall Street analysts to discuss SpaceX's financial results. "It's not out of the question that at some point, Starlink will deliver the majority of the world's internet," he said. The company's Starship division reported $962 million in revenue for the quarter, while its AI unit booked $2.6 billion. Musk said during the call that SpaceX expects to deliver "well over 1 million tons to orbit per year," while noting the figure could eventually rise to 10 million tons. "And this is a big number by normal standards," he said. "The rest of the world, I think, delivers around 300 tons." SpaceX's IPO made Musk, the company's founder and CEO, into the world's first trillionaire on paper. SpaceX shares could use a boost SpaceX shares have slumped since the company's blockbuster IPO, with the stock losing almost 50% of its value after hitting an intraday high of $225.64 on June 16. Despite its rapid revenue growth, investors appeared unconvinced by SpaceX's maiden quarterly readout, with the stock sinking 7% to $116.40 in after-hours trading, below the IPO offer price of $135 per share. "I don't think people want to hear promises about the next five years or a mission to Mars," Emarketer Senior Analyst Gadjo Sevilla told AFP. "Everyone knows that will take time. They want to see how the value can be turned around as quickly as possible." Wall Street analysts and retail investors were looking to the quarterly earnings report for clues on whether SpaceX can deliver on Musk's vision for the company, which includes putting solar-powered data centers in space and eventually sending spaceships to Mars. "In many ways, SpaceX presents a track record of building toward solutions which many industry experts had previously viewed to be implausible," noted Goldman Sachs analyst Eric Sheridan in a July research report. The company booked $18.7 billion in revenue last year, but reported a net loss of more than $4.9 billion, according to a regulatory filing. SpaceX, which launched its 13th Starship rocket in late July, is targeting a landing on the moon in 2028. For now, however, no Starship has been put into Earth orbit. Edited by Alain Sherter More from CBS News What to watch for in SpaceX's first public earnings report today Dow soars 1,000 points on strong corporate profits, hopes of Iran deal How much interest will a $50,000 1-year CD earn if opened this August? More adult children live at home now than during the pandemic Go deeper with The Free Press Why the SpaceX IPO Went to the Moon Elon Musk Left DOGE, but Democrats Want to Close the ‘Self-Dealing’ Loophole In: Elon Musk SpaceX © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. NASA renders show a lumpy Earth SpaceX crew prepares for 6-month mission; NASA renders show lumpy Earth without oceans 03:26 SpaceX crew prepares for 6-month mission; NASA renders show lumpy Earth without oceans (03:26) What to watch for in SpaceX's first public earnings report today Dow soars 1,000 points on strong corporate profits, hopes of Iran deal How much interest will a $50,000 1-year CD earn if opened this August? Why the SpaceX IPO Went to the Moon Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest MLB Trade Deadline Predictions NFL Overrated QBs Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue