Extreme heat breaks temperature records in central and eastern Europe | Extreme weather | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 3 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Shrivelled sunflowers near the village of Kovilj, Serbia. Photograph: Andrej Isaković/AFP/Getty Images View image in fullscreen Shrivelled sunflowers near the village of Kovilj, Serbia. Photograph: Andrej Isaković/AFP/Getty Images Extreme weather Extreme heat breaks temperature records in central and eastern Europe Slovakia reaches new high of 42C as authorities in Poland forced to shut down Kozienice and Połaniec power plants Europe’s dry riverbeds and scorched earth – in pictures Matthew Taylor and Ajit Niranjan Fri 7 Aug 2026 01.00 EDT Last modified on Fri 7 Aug 2026 03.32 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Temperature records have been broken in several countries across central and eastern Europe as the extreme weather that has caused wildfires and droughts across the continent continues. Countries including Slovakia , Austria and Hungary registered record temperatures. On Thursday, the Slovakian hydrometeorological agency said a new high of 42C (108F) had been reached in Dolné Plachtince. Authorities in Poland were forced to shut down the Kozienice and Połaniec coal-fired power plants after critically low water levels in the Vistula River limited cooling water supplies. The disruption removed about 1.3GW of capacity from Poland’s power system. On Wednesday, the Polish prime minister, Donald Tusk, had urged employers to look after their staff and provide air conditioning and cold water. View image in fullscreen Low water levels in Poland’s Vistula River on Thursday. Photograph: Wojtek Jargiło/EPA In Germany , climate activists demanding an end to the use of fossil fuels demonstrated outside the chancellery against the lack of government action to keep people safe from extreme heat. An estimated 11,900 people across the country have died from heat this summer, according to new estimates from the Robert Koch Institute. “This extreme heat and its consequences are the result of a fossil fuel policy that is completely irresponsible and extremely dangerous,” said Annkatrin Schwirten, from Fridays for Future Berlin. “We must not become accustomed to thousands of heat-related deaths every summer.” The Hungarian prime minister, Péter Magyar, wrote on X on Thursday that the nuclear power station which had been temporarily powered down would be going back online. “Good news: we are already nine centimeters above the Danube’s Sunday low point, and rain is expected in the Austrian catchment areas,” he wrote. “One of the turbines at the Paks nuclear power plant is operating. Regardless of this, on today’s hot day there will still be a strong need for voluntary reductions in electricity consumption.” The brutal heat and continuing drought conditions are being supercharged by the escalating climate crisis , and experts warn these are putting huge pressure on local populations, critical infrastructure and wildlife across the region. Paweł Pomian, from EKO-UNIA, a Polish environmental organisation, said “power plants driving climate change were increasingly becoming its victims”, adding that the impact of this summer’s extreme conditions, fuelled by the burning of fossil fuels, should be a “wake-up call not only for Poland, but for the whole of Europe”. “The faster we develop wind and solar power – technologies that require the least water to generate electricity – the better we can protect both energy security and our rivers,” he said. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Weekly Sign up to This is Europe The most pressing stories and debates for Europeans – from identity to economics to the environment Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion View image in fullscreen Environmental experts examine part of the Danube riverbed in Budapest on Thursday. Photograph: Attila Kisbenedek/AFP/Getty Images The scorching heatwaves have also deprived vegetation of moisture and primed much of the continent for wildfires. About half a million hectares have burned across the EU since the start of the year, mostly in Spain and France, according to data published by the European Forest Fire Information System on Thursday. A further 292,000 hectares (721,000 acres) have burned in Ukraine. We launched a war on nature. Now we are in a climate warzone | Rebecca Solnit Read more The severity of fire weather – the hot, dry and windy conditions that make it harder to battle blazes when they break out – has set new records for the time of year, by alarming margins in some countries. In Austria, which had a record high temperature of 41.2C on Wednesday, cumulative fire weather is more than twice as severe as the previous record for this time of year. In Czechia , which registered a new national temperature record earlier in the summer, fire weather by early August was more than 50% worse than the previous record, and in Slovakia it was 32% worse. Last week, a rapid analysis by the World Weather Attribution consortium found that global heating had made last month’s hot, dry and windy weather at least 20 times more likely in Spain and twice as likely in France. Explore more on these topics Extreme weather Climate crisis Drought Europe Slovakia Austria Hungary news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)