Newcastle say they “didn’t want to sell” Guimaraes, as Arsenal move looms | Football News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up Sport | Football Newcastle say they “didn’t want to sell” Guimaraes, as Arsenal move looms Bruno Guimaraes looks set to move to Premier League champions Arsenal, but Newcastle say they did not want to sell. Listen (2 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google Newcastle's Bruno Guimaraes, front, looks set to link up with Declan Rice in Arsenal's midfield this season [Ian Walton/AP] By Reuters Published On 8 Aug 2026 8 Aug 2026 Newcastle United did ‌not want to sell captain Bruno Guimaraes, sporting director Ross ⁠Wilson has said, after reports linked the Brazil midfielder with a move to Arsenal. British media reported on Wednesday that Arsenal had ⁠agreed a deal worth 75 million pounds ($101m) for the 28-year-old. Neither club has confirmed the reported transfer. Recommended Stories list of 4 items list 1 of 4 Argentina and Mexico back Infantino, deepening FIFA divide: What to know list 2 of 4 Infantino, FIFA try to move beyond botched World Cup sell-off: What we know list 3 of 4 UEFA’s threatened legal action against Infantino and FIFA: What we know list 4 of 4 UEFA confirms legal letter served to FIFA after Infantino’s World Cup plan end of list “We didn’t want to sell Bruno. It wasn’t in the plan to sell Bruno. None of us – or ownership – wanted to sell Bruno,” Wilson told reporters at Newcastle’s preseason training camp in Spain. “He’s our captain, he ‌was very important to us, and the debate over his price – it’s a world-record fee for a player of his age. “What we had to weigh up was, very respectfully from Bruno with his behaviour towards us, very emotionally as well, effectively told us he wanted to leave and move on.” Guimaraes, who joined Newcastle from French ⁠side Olympique Lyonnais in January 2022, has made ⁠195 appearances in all competitions and scored 31 goals for the Premier League club. He captained Newcastle to League Cup glory in 2025, ending the club’s long wait for domestic ⁠silverware. “There’s no part in saying (the transfer) was part of our strategy and was in our thinking ⁠this summer – it wasn’t. But we have ⁠got to be flexible and react to things that happen,” Wilson said. “It might have been in our plan to sign one player, but we didn’t get him so we move ‌on to another. We can only be honest about that.” Guimaraes’s exit would be another setback for Newcastle following the departures of Anthony Gordon, ‌Sandro ‌Tonali and manager Eddie Howe. Advertisement Newcastle begin their Premier League campaign against Liverpool on August 23. Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network