Labor’s gambling reform friendless as Coalition withholds support amid drug and sex worker allegations | Gambling | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters Anthony Albanese has also faced internal revolt over the gambling advertising bill, with Labor MPs calling for tougher rules this week. Photograph: Lukas Coch/AAP View image in fullscreen Anthony Albanese has also faced internal revolt over the gambling advertising bill, with Labor MPs calling for tougher rules this week. Photograph: Lukas Coch/AAP Gambling Labor’s gambling reform friendless as Coalition withholds support amid drug and sex worker allegations Sarah Henderson says bill ignores gambling inducements, uniting parties and independents against controversial legislation Follow our Australia news live blog for latest updates Get our breaking news email , free app or daily news podcast Tom McIlroy Political editor Wed 5 Aug 2026 03.50 EDT Last modified on Wed 5 Aug 2026 04.13 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Labor will be forced to make major changes to its planned crackdown on online gambling advertising, as the Coalition, Greens and independents demand tougher rules to stop betting companies offering generous inducements as well as further limits on broadcast ads. After a two-day inquiry including sensational evidence that gambling companies allegedly provided illegal drugs and access to sex workers to keep problem gamblers betting, the Coalition confirmed on Wednesday afternoon it would seek “crucial amendments” before agreeing to support the government’s legislation. The Greens and key independents including David Pocock have all called for the bill to be significantly stronger, signalling a potential rerun of Labor’s Senate defeat on aged care reforms which was secured by the non-government parties teaming up . Sign up for the Breaking News Australia email “Labor’s gambling reform bill is riddled with deficiencies and must be significantly amended,” the shadow communications minister, Sarah Henderson, said, suggesting the opposition’s view the government was failing to take gambling harm seriously. “The bill ignores gambling inducements which are causing immeasurable harm to some Australians. There is mounting evidence legislative action is required to combat predatory inducements which target high risk or vulnerable gamblers.” Henderson also flagged changes to the limits and frequency of gambling ads, saying up to three per hour during children’s television programming was untenable and that she had serious concerns about opt-out rules for streaming platforms. Guardian Australia has been told the communications minister, Anika Wells, met with Henderson on Wednesday to discuss the bill. Liberal frontbencher Simon Kennedy is among Coalition MPs pushing for a stronger response, especially after evidence from former NRL player Luke Bateman and veteran anti-gambling campaigner Tim Costello this week. They alleged problem gamblers had been supplied with cocaine, alcohol and sex workers , part of efforts from gambling company VIP managers to keep big spending punters betting as long as possible. “Gambling addiction is taking an enormous toll on so many Australian families,” Henderson said. “After three years of delay, deflection and deception over gambling reform, the Albanese government’s failings on this bill are inexcusable.” The Greens communication spokeswoman, Sarah Hanson-Young , told Guardian Australia it was clear the bill would not pass parliament in its current form. “This is a test for the prime minister,” she said. “It is not party political or ideological at this point. It is a moral question.” Opponents of Labor’s bill have pointed to a landmark inquiry report delivered by the late MP Peta Murphy in June 2023. Murphy’s committee recommended the government “prohibit all online gambling inducements and inducement advertising, and that it do so without delay”. Labor has been already facing calls from within its own ranks for a tougher response. MPs Louise Miller-Frost and Alicia Payne told Guardian Australia on Wednesday the draft legislation should be significantly strengthened . Non-Labor MPs could also vote to extend the inquiry, including to force big sporting codes including the AFL and NRL to attend hearings. Pocock told Guardian Australia he welcomed the Coalition’s comments and would await details from Henderson. “I hope Senate colleagues in the Coalition will also support my push for a national regulator, a full gambling advertising ban and an end to harmful inducements as recommended by the Murphy review,” he said. ”If the bill is amended to ban inducements and move to an opt-in arrangement for gambling advertising as the Coalition is proposing, it would be significantly strengthened and, based on what I’ve heard from Canberrans and experts, I would likely support.” Explore more on these topics Gambling Sarah Hanson-Young David Pocock Anthony Albanese Australian politics news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Nearly 1,500 properties bought using first home buyers’ 5% deposit scheme converted into investments 6h ago Labor MPs urge Albanese to go harder on gambling reform amid illicit drug and sex worker allegations 1d ago Chris Bowen vows to override Queensland and NT to force renewables-powered AI datacentres 13h ago Sportsbet and Tabcorp deny allegations they sourced drugs and sex workers to encourage VIP clients to bet more 2d ago ‘Won’t happen’: One Nation Victoria leader’s comments raise questions about Hanson’s mass deportations policy 18h ago Luke Bateman tells inquiry gambling companies supplied him with cocaine and alcohol 3d ago Labor plans migration cuts as Tony Burke pulls out of major speech 19h ago I spent many of my childhood weekends among gamblers in the local TAB. That seems almost quaint now 11 Jul 2026 … … comments Pauline Hanson has knocked another brick out of our creaky political system. It’s not good for anybody 1d ago … … comments Australian Politics Meet Darcy Byrne, the Labor mayor taking on pokies reform – Australian Politics podcast 10 Jul 2026 Most viewed Most viewed Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)