Three lions die of suspected heatstroke at Tokyo zoo as Japan swelters | Japan | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Environment Climate crisis Wildlife Energy Pollution Green light One of the Tama Zoological Park lions that has died of suspected heatstroke. Photograph: Tama Zoological Park View image in fullscreen One of the Tama Zoological Park lions that has died of suspected heatstroke. Photograph: Tama Zoological Park Japan Three lions die of suspected heatstroke at Tokyo zoo as Japan swelters Most of the zoo’s 16 lions have struggled to cope with high humidity this summer Agence France-Presse Tue 4 Aug 2026 01.46 EDT Last modified on Wed 5 Aug 2026 00.08 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Three lions from a Tokyo zoo have died from suspected heatstroke and others are undergoing treatment, a spokesperson said on Tuesday, as the big cats struggle in Japan’s high levels of humidity. Japan sweltered through its hottest summer on record last year and parts of the country have hit 40C in recent weeks, qualifying for the new “cruelly hot day” designation . Since mid-July, 10 of the 16 lions in Tama zoological park have suffered from “loss of appetite and decreased activity”, and three lionesses had died, the zoo said in a statement. One lioness died on Tuesday, another Friday, and the third on Sunday, it said. Japan’s prime minister tours earthquake-hit sites as recovery efforts hampered by soaring temperatures Read more The cause of the deaths is suspected to be heatstroke, as dehydration and multiple organ failure were observed by a veterinarian, the zoo said. “Even though lions are thought to be resistant to heat, zoo keepers have been strengthening countermeasures to cope with Japan’s summer heat in recent years. Heat here comes with high humidity; that is different from heat with dry air in Africa,” a zoo spokesperson said. “But this summer, heat arrived suddenly after the rainy season was over” in late July, they added. View image in fullscreen The exterior of Tama Zoological Park. Photograph: Syced/Wikimedia Commons “We are strengthening measures against the heat, sprinkling water, improving ventilation and installing spot air conditioners.” The zoo said several lions are still being treated. About 18,600 people in Japan were taken to hospital for heatstroke between 20 and 26 July, with 45 of them pronounced dead on arrival, according to the fire and disaster management agency. Authorities have adjusted the timings of a string of cultural and sporting events in recent years because of the heat, including the World Cosplay Summit in Nagoya, which held its last summer edition last weekend. Japan experiences about 1,300 heat-related deaths annually and is aiming to halve that number by 2030. The country’s highest recorded temperature was registered in August last year: 41.8C in Isesaki, north of Tokyo. Scientists say human-induced climate change is increasing the frequency and intensity of extreme heat events in Japan and elsewhere. South Korea is currently engulfed by a heatwave , with the rising summer temperatures linked to at least 16 deaths. Explore more on these topics Japan Extreme heat Extreme weather Asia Pacific Wildlife news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed Environment Climate crisis Wildlife Energy Pollution Green light News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)