Fox advertising, streaming service Tubi get boost from World Cup Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Media Fox advertising, streaming service Tubi get boost from World Cup Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 11:06 AM EDT Updated 4 Hours Ago Lillian Rizzo @Lilliannnn WATCH LIVE Key Points Fox's quarterly revenue got a boost from the FIFA Men's World Cup, which kicked off in June this year and aired on the company's broadcast, pay TV and streaming platforms. The World Cup brought big audiences and it also helped drive growth for Fox's free ad-supported streaming service, Tubi, which featured some content from the tournament. Recently launched subscription service Fox One also got a boost from the World Cup, but CEO Lachlan Murdoch said overall subscribers to date are "truly incremental." In this article FOX Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Ferran Torres of Spain celebrates scoring during the World Cup Final against Argentina at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey, July 19, 2026. Michael Regan - Fifa | Fifa | Getty Images Fox Corp .'s quarterly financial report got a big kick from the FIFA World Cup. The company said Thursday that the tournament that took place in North America this summer lifted advertising revenue across the company and drove growth for its free streaming service, Tubi. Overall revenue was up 28% to $4.21 billion compared with the same period last year. Advertising revenue shot up 78% to $1.92 billion largely due to the World Cup and Tubi. Fox reported its fiscal fourth-quarter and annual earnings on Thursday. Fox's broadcast and streaming of the tournament averaged roughly 7.7 million viewers across 104 matches, with the final match between Spain and Argentina drawing a record of nearly 39 million viewers for Fox's platforms, according to Nielsen. NBCUniversal 's Telemundo and Peacock, which aired the Spanish-language broadcast of the games, also reaped strong viewership and ad dollars. Live sports have continued to lift media companies across the board due to the large audiences that games tend to attract. Major sporting events, like the World Cup, Super Bowl and playoff series, tend to bring in the most ad revenue. This week, Disney said during its earnings call that it had already sold out of ad inventory ahead of the next Super Bowl in February. Fox CEO Lachlan Murdoch on Thursday's earnings call with investors said the company's fiscal year was one of "record financial performance." "These are excellent results made even more impressive by the comparison to the especially strong prior year which benefitted from the Super Bowl and presidential election," he said Thursday. Lachlan Murdoch speaks at the New York Times DealBook conference in New York City, Nov. 1, 2018. Stephanie Keith | Getty Images News | Getty Images Advertising has emerged once again as a critical component to driving revenue and profitability. Traditional pay TV subscriber losses have led to declines in distribution revenue, and subscriber additions have stagnated for many streaming services as consumers have turned to other options. For Fox, which has a portfolio of TV networks weighted toward sports and news, advertising revenue has been consistent. The company sold its entertainment assets to Disney in 2019. Murdoch said on Thursday that Fox had one of its "strongest Upfront in our history with double digit growth in volume. "Upfronts" are the annual slate of content pitches to advertisers. In June, Fox announced its proposed acquisition of Roku for $22 billion, potentially expanding its footprint in advertising. The company known for its streaming devices also has The Roku Channel, a competitor to Tubi. Fox didn't enter the traditional subscription streaming game until last year, well behind its peers. Up until then, the company had focused on building out Tubi , which is solely reliant on advertising and has been growing its base of younger viewers — a key demographic for advertisers. Read more At TV upfronts, AI is in and corporate shuffles are reshaping the lineup Disney is poised to ramp its already booming advertising business. Rita Ferro is behind the push Netflix's advertising strategy shift is starting to pay off Free streaming service Tubi is rivaling major players for viewership. Here's how it's winning Fox has picked specific moments and sports to include on Tubi, including the Super Bowl in recent years. Some games and shoulder programming from the World Cup helped boost the platform, Murdoch said in Thursday's call. "Tubi's World Cup hub attracted over 20 million viewers across the tournament, while additionally the final cast of two early round matches generated two of the highest traffic days in the platform's history," Murdoch said. Fox One, which launched nearly a year ago and includes all of Fox's content, also benefitted from the World Cup. Murdoch said distribution revenue for the quarter increased 5%, due in part by Fox One, "which continues to exceed our expectations." He noted that the World Cup drove new customers to the service and led to strong retention rates. Fox's leadership said when the service launched that it was not intended to cause further pay TV losses, as streaming alternatives have largely done for media companies. Fox One is priced at $19.99 a month, although it is also available in a bundle with Disney's ESPN direct to consumer streaming platform. On Thursday, Murdoch said Fox continues "to see minimal cannibalization of our traditional pay TV business" due to Fox One and would continue to explore bundling opportunities. He also noted that Fox One subscribers "are truly incremental." Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by