NJ files antitrust suit against Amazon on delivery contractor control Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech New Jersey sues Amazon on antitrust grounds, alleging it unlawfully wielded its power over delivery contractors Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 11:03 AM EDT Updated 6 Hours Ago Annie Palmer @in/annierpalmer/ WATCH LIVE Key Points New Jersey sued Amazon, accusing it of wielding "monopsony" power over its legions of contracted delivery companies. The complaint alleges Amazon's third-party delivery model leads to lower wages, unfair working conditions and a lack of competition. Regulators and lawmakers have increasingly criticized Amazon's delivery service partner model, which relies on contractors to ferry packages from its warehouses to shoppers' doorsteps. In this article AMZN Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 1:13 01:13 New Jersey attorney general files antitrust lawsuit against Amazon Squawk on the Street New Jersey Attorney General Jennifer Davenport announced on Tuesday that she's suing Amazon on antitrust grounds, alleging the online retailer abuses its power over third-party delivery contractors to suppress competition and harm workers. Amazon prevents delivery workers from unionizing, restricts contractors in its delivery network from hiring each other's drivers, and limits competition for their labor, leading to lower wages and causing employees to "endure harsher working conditions than they should," Davenport's office said in a release. "As our complaint alleges, Amazon built a company worth trillions while subjecting drivers in its delivery network to artificially low pay and punishing working conditions thanks to its overwhelming power in the labor market," Davenport said in a statement. Amazon said in a statement that the "complaint is not grounded in fact" and blasted the claims about working conditions as "just wrong." "The truth is, DSPs are independent business owners who make their own decisions about hiring, fleet management, and capacity planning — and they choose whether to work with other companies besides Amazon," the company said . Since 2018, Amazon has operated its delivery service partner program, which relies on a network of thousands of small contracted companies to handle last-mile delivery of packages from the company's warehouses to shoppers' doorsteps. It's allowed Amazon to reduce its reliance on major carriers like UPS and FedEx , while enabling it to speed up deliveries. Read more CNBC tech news SpaceX revenue jumps 92% and AI costs soar in first earnings report since IPO NJ files antitrust suit against Amazon, alleging it unlawfully wielded power over delivery contractors Palantir stock skyrockets on 'otherworldly' commercial revenue — here's what's driving the demand How the 'Baby iPhone' and an Apple supplier leak explain China's recent supply chain moves The model has come under increasing scrutiny from lawmakers, regulators and labor advocates who claim Amazon uses the third-party contractor label to eschew liability and avoid employing its delivery workforce, while still exerting control over things like their wages, schedules and uniforms. Amazon has argued that delivery partners have full control over their operations. New York City is weighing legislation that would require Amazon to employ DSPs directly, among other measures. Amazon has said it would "consider relocating delivery operations" outside the city as a result of the bill, while a tech industry group warned that it could lead to higher shipping costs for consumers. In her complaint, filed in U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey, Davenport accused Amazon of having a "monopsony" over the market for delivery driver services. Unlike a monopoly, which usually deals with a company throttling its power over competitors or consumers, a monopsony often refers to a company being the only player in a certain labor market, giving it outsized influence over employment conditions. The complaint alleges that DSPs are "economically dependent on Amazon" and are unable to operate independently from the company, "leaving them unable to compete for drivers by offering higher pay or better conditions, which is what allows Amazon to hold driver wages down." —CNBC's Jim Forkin contributed to this article watch now VIDEO 1:05 01:05 Amazon stock pops on quarterly beat Closing Bell: Overtime Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by