Switzerland has more nuclear bunkers than any other country : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Switzerland has more nuclear bunkers than any other country Instead of scrapping its network of bomb shelters after the Cold War, Switzerland kept building them. The country has more than 370,000 nuclear bomb shelters. Some are now used to house migrants. World Switzerland is a neutral nation but has more nuclear bunkers than any country in the world August 8, 2026 7:01 AM ET Rob Schmitz Why does Switzerland have so many nuclear bunkers? Listen · 7:25 7-Minute Listen Playlist Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/g-s1-137635/nx-s1-mx-5924838-1" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> A tunnel leading from the entrance of the Sonnenberg nuclear bunker in Lucerne, Switzerland, leads to a complex deep underground. The bunker is the world's largest underground nuclear bunker, constructed to house 20,000 people. Rob Schmitz/NPR hide caption toggle caption Rob Schmitz/NPR LUCERNE, Switzerland — From the outside, the Sonnenberg nuclear bunker looks innocent enough: its entrance is in the middle of a children's playground. But past the seesaws and swing sets, carved into a hill, is a thick blast-proof door that, when opened, exposes a narrow, well-lit tunnel that gently descends as far as the eye can see. Sonnenberg Bunker guide Zora Schelbert walks slowly down the tunnel toward the main structure of the bunker, built in the 1970s, during the Cold War, to house 20,000 people in the event of a nuclear war. "Back then, 20,000 people constituted a third of our city's inhabitants," says Schelbert. "So every third person in the city of Lucerne was once supposed to be sheltered in this bunker." The entrance to the nuclear bunker underneath the University of Bern's History Department building. Rob Schmitz/NPR hide caption toggle caption Rob Schmitz/NPR If a nuclear war between the U.S. and the Soviet Union were to happen, Swiss officials reasoned at the time, Switzerland — an historically neutral nation — would likely not suffer a direct hit. But it would be in the path of nuclear fallout from its non-neutral neighbors. So they supplied diesel-powered generators that had enough fuel to power this bunker for two weeks. Sponsor Message "So after two weeks, no more food, no more water, no more power," says Schelbert. "And today, civil defense also says that the duration of stay depends on what the problem is outside. And as we can see currently in Ukraine or Israel, this makes total sense because as long as it's a conventional war, people seek shelter temporarily and then you can leave again." Instead of scrapping its nationwide network of bomb shelters after the Cold War ended, Switzerland doubled down and kept building them, guaranteeing every one of its 9 million citizens a bomb shelter space, just in case. The country has more than 370,000 nuclear bomb shelters. Daniel Jordi, vice director of Switzerland's federal office of civil protection, says in 2011 when Switzerland's parliament was debating whether to scrap all its bomb shelters, lawmakers voted to maintain the network. The vote took place after Japan's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant melted down following a massive earthquake and tsunami. Rob Schmitz/NPR hide caption toggle caption Rob Schmitz/NPR "There were a couple of political discussions, especially in 2010, 2011," recalls Daniel Jordi, vice director of Switzerland's federal office of civil protection. "There was a discussion in the parliament to finish with the system." But just as the national parliament was debating whether to scrap all of the country's bomb shelters in 2011, the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant in Japan melted down after a massive earthquake and tsunami. "And they came to the conclusion that it's good to have those shelters as a national reserve to protect the people in the real emergency," Jordi says. Sponsor Message That means every residential building in Switzerland is required to either build a bunker with proper blast doors and ventilation systems or developers have to earmark funds for a nearby bunker maintained by the state. Swiss citizens have to pay an upfront fee between $1,700 to around $3,500 for the maintenance and construction of these shelters. In peacetime — which, due to its neutrality, is the norm in Switzerland — these bunkers are turned into wine cellars, saunas or, in the case of the University of Bern, storage. Silvia Berger Ziauddin, an expert on the history of Switzerland's network of nuclear bunkers, gives a tour of the University of Bern's underground bunker. She says bomb bunkers are rooted in the idea that this tiny alpine nation has, for more than a century, served as an island of calm surrounded by a sea of chaos. Rob Schmitz/NPR hide caption toggle caption Rob Schmitz/NPR History professor Silvia Berger Ziauddin shows off a foot-thick door made of reinforced concrete, the entrance to the nuclear bunker underneath her department's building. Berger Ziauddin, an expert on the history of Switzerland's network of nuclear bunkers, says bomb bunkers are rooted in the idea that this tiny alpine nation has, for more than a century, served as an island of calm surrounded by a sea of chaos. "It was an idea already developed in [the] First World War, actually," she explains. "And then in the Second World War, it was the same island metaphor that was developed again. And in the Cold War, the island metaphor was transposed to the nuclear shelter." This is a classroom for children in the Sonnenberg bunker. Many students spend a week learning about these bunkers as part of a civil defense-centered curriculum. Rob Schmitz/NPR hide caption toggle caption Rob Schmitz/NPR Berger Ziauddin says the Swiss government cultivates this idea through the country's schools. Each year, she says, many students spend a week learning about these bunkers as part of a civil defense-centered curriculum, "where you have to draw civil defense shelters, you have to watch civil defense movies, you have to go to the shelter and eventually sleep in the shelter for one night," she says. Berger Ziauddin says at the end of the week, kids present their drawings to their classmates. "But then also, kids also talked about their drawings and said, 'OK, in the upper level of my drawings there is destruction and death and chaos, and underneath, there is warmth and security and there is the shelter and the family and the pet and the mother working and the father is reading,'" she says. "And this imagery is very persistent for kids." Sponsor Message But Berger Ziauddin also says the reality of life in a nuclear bunker would be a far cry from how Swiss children imagine it. The hospital in the Sonnenberg bunker is equipped for surgeries and other compelx medical procedures. Rob Schmitz/NPR hide caption toggle caption Rob Schmitz/NPR This is the entrance to the hospital in the Sonnenberg bunker. Rob Schmitz/NPR hide caption toggle caption Rob Schmitz/NPR At the Sonnenberg nuclear bunker beneath Lucerne, Schelbert, the guide, walks past the bunker's hospital with bright green walls — a stylistic holdover from the 1970s — to the fourth level of the bunker, a security station complete with three prison cells, all painted bright yellow. "It's 16 spots for 20,000 people," she says. "And over the last two decades, doubts then were raised as to whether this would have been enough, given the circumstances that led to people entering. So that's why I think it's fair to say that the size of the facility and the problems that come with such a big mass of people, be it social problems, psychological issues, this can be considered one of the factors that contributed to downsizing." Sleeping accommodations inside the Sonnenberg bunker in Lucerne. Rob Schmitz/NPR hide caption toggle caption Rob Schmitz/NPR And that's part of the reason why in 2002, Switzerland's government reduced the Sonnenberg bunker capacity from 20,000 to just 2,000. Its floors filled with bunk beds, a prison and hospital, all deep underground, have been repurposed over the years as overflow housing for refugees, asylum seekers and the homeless. It's a use that has been criticized by organizations that help these populations. Some asylum seekers have protested against being housed here. It has never been used for its original intent: to protect people from nuclear fallout. But the Swiss government continues to spend tens of millions of dollars a year to maintain it and hundreds of thousands of other bunkers throughout the country — just in case. Esme Nicholson contributed to this report from Berlin. Switzerland nuclear war Cold War Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR A tale of two very different horny movies Space Solar eclipse to occur next week. Here is what to know National Wildfires in urban areas are more common. That may have helped Spokane The Picture Show The Women's Professional Baseball League makes its historic debut News North America poised for light display of aurora borealis Trump's Terms Shrouded from view, Trump's name removed from Kennedy Center : Trump's Terms More Stories From NPR World Yemen's Houthis claim attack on Aramco oil facility in Saudi Arabia, and other Middle East news Space Solar eclipse to occur next week. Here is what to know Ukraine invasion — explained Ukraine mourns 'collector of souls' Oleksiy Yukov, killed recovering war dead The Americas K-pop's global wave inspires Chile's next pop stars State of the World from NPR Why does Switzerland have so many nuclear bunkers? The Americas Colombia's new president vows to remake the country — and challenge rebel groups Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Family Amid cost of living stress, many parents are supporting children well into adulthood Pop Culture Happy Hour A tale of two very different horny movies Elections Data centers are a political issue crossing party lines, driving voters to candidates Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! ‘Wait Wait’ for August 8, 2026: With Not My Job guest Sally Field The Picture Show The Women's Professional Baseball League makes its historic debut Planet Money Older workers aren’t retiring. Should they be forced to? NPR Editors' Picks Immigration Private prisons announce $1.4 billion in revenue as immigration detentions climb Health Reporting in the States Federal funds can't be used to give test strips to drug users, raising overdose fears The Ripple Effect How Jim James and Jeff Tweedy learned to love the Grateful Dead Politics Senate votes to confirm Todd Blanche as attorney general Economy Trump renews push to fire Fed Governor Lisa Cook Politics Another court blocks White House ballroom work, teeing up a Supreme Court review Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices