SpaceX hit by surging AI costs as insiders prepare to sell stock IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Business News SpaceX hit by surging AI costs as insiders prepare to sell their shares Capital expenditures related to its xAI unit, which runs the Grok service, hit $15.8 billion, more than double what they were in the first quarter. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Elon Musk, founder of Space Exploration Technologies Corp. (SpaceX), on screen during the company's initial public offering at the Nasdaq MarketSite in New York in June. Adam Gray / Bloomberg via Getty Images file Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 4, 2026, 4:55 PM EDT / Updated Aug. 4, 2026, 5:16 PM EDT By Rob Wile For a rocket company, SpaceX is spending a lot of money to build out its AI capacities. Too much, according to investors. The company reported revenues in its first-ever quarterly update as a public company that the surpassed analysts’ expectations. Most of its revenues came from its Starlink satellite offering. But investor focus turned to capital expenditures related to its xAI unit, which runs the Grok AI service. Those hit $15.8 billion, higher than expectations of $13.09 billion according to Bloomberg News data and about double the previous quarter. The AI spending also comprised most of SpaceX’s overall $18.4 billion quarterly spending on cap-ex. The report caused SpaceX shares to reverse a healthy run-up during regular trading hours Tuesday. The stock fell some 6.5% in trading after the closing bell, after having surged 9% earlier. Tesla CEO Elon Musk. Patrick Pleul / AFP via Getty Images file SpaceX immediately became a multi-trillion-dollar company after a record-setting IPO on June 12 — but nearly just as quickly, it erased $1 trillion in value as the stock plunged amid anticipation of insider stock sales and broader jitters about the pace of AI spending. Still, the company continues to enjoy a market valuation of more than $1 trillion, making it one of the most valuable companies in the world. The stock got an additional boost Tuesday after announcing a new deal with Nvidia that will see the two companies partner on a future satellite project. Investor speculation has grown that SpaceX may attempt to merge with its sister company, Tesla. This would give Elon Musk even more control over his multi-faceted technology empire than he already exerts. Share Add NBC News to Google Rob Wile Rob Wile is a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist covering breaking business stories for NBCNews.com. About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC