California's diesel prices have jumped since the Iran war started, with ripple effects across the country Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Markets California's diesel prices have jumped since the Iran war started, with ripple effects across the country Published Mon, Aug 3 2026 11:27 AM EDT Updated Mon, Aug 3 2026 3:20 PM EDT Pippa Stevens @PippaStevens13 WATCH LIVE watch now VIDEO 2:32 02:32 How high diesel prices are creating a hidden tax for consumers Markets and Politics Digital Original Video California is home to the highest fuel prices in the U.S. as well as the busiest containership port complex in the nation. So as the Iran war enters its sixth month and petroleum product prices remain elevated, consumers across the U.S. could be hit with higher prices for a host of everyday products. Nearly one-third of containership imports and exports travel through the San Pedro Bay port complex. In other words, before goods end up on shelves across the nation, they're first hauled by trucks and trains paying California fuel prices. Since the war with Iran began, much of the focus has been on oil itself, but experts say petroleum product markets are much tighter — especially when it comes to diesel. "I think this refining challenge is going to be with the world for a while," ExxonMobil CEO Darren Woods told CNBC on Friday . "Even after the strait opens up, we'll see more products start to flow through the strait, which is going to be critically important. But we've still got the Russia capacity that's been lost, and we'll have to see what the Chinese do with respect to exporting," he added. The combination of the war with Iran and Ukraine ramping up attacks on Russian refining infrastructure means the world is now short about 8% of global diesel demand, according to Lipow Oil Associates' Andy Lipow. Diesel is sometimes known as the workhorse of the American economy since trucks and trains that transport goods across the U.S. are powered by it. The U.S. is the world's largest energy producer, but California's fossil fuel industry has shrunk over the years and refiners have closed. The state also doesn't have major fuel pipelines that connect it to other parts of the U.S., and has strict environmental regulations, all of which drive up prices at the pump. The average price for a gallon of diesel in the U.S. is $5.36, according to AAA, but in California it's $6.92, up from $5.10 before the war. "[A] meaningful share of America's supply chain pays West Coast fuel prices," JPMorgan analysts led by Natasha Kaneva said in a June note to clients. "These prices influence freight costs, transportation margins, and ultimately the delivered cost of goods nationwide," the firm added. Watch the video above to hear more about how California's fuel prices trickle through the U.S. economy. — CNBC's Macklin Fishman contributed reporting. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by