Idaho In-N-Out shooting video shows gunman start deadly rampage in drive-thru - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War UFO Files World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War UFO Files World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News U.S. Idaho In-N-Out shooting video shows gunman start deadly rampage in drive-thru By Alex Sundby Alex Sundby Senior Editor Alex Sundby is a senior editor at CBSNews.com. In addition to editing content, Alex also covers breaking news, writing about crime and severe weather as well as everything from multistate lottery jackpots to the July Fourth hot dog eating contest. Read Full Bio Alex Sundby Updated on: August 7, 2026 / 4:42 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Police released surveillance video footage Friday showing chilling moments from last weekend's deadly shooting that started at an Idaho In-N-Out restaurant. Three people were killed in last Saturday's rampage in Twin Falls, Idaho. The gunman, 24-year-old Chad Williams, died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound, police said. Twin Falls Police Chief Matthew Hicks said during a news conference Friday that investigators still don't know the motive for the shooting. Security camera footage released Friday shows the shooting started in the In-N-Out's drive-thru. The gunman shot from his car through the payment window, hitting 23-year-old Ashley Garibay, of Stockton, California, who died later at a hospital, police said. The gunman pulled up in the drive-thru lane and parked. He got out of his car and shot 59-year-old Christopher Claunch of Hagerman, Idaho, in his vehicle, who died at the scene, police said. Austin James, a former Idaho State Police trooper and former Twin Falls police officer, ran toward the gunman and was shot, police said. He retreated to his car, drew his own weapon but pulled back because of his wounds, police said. The gunman in a deadly mass shooting in Twin Falls, Idaho, looks into an In-N-Out restaurant during the rampage, Aug. 1, 2026. Twin Falls Police Department The gunman went back to the payment window and fired into the In-N-Out again as employees tried to help Garibay, police said. His handgun jammed and he went back to his car to get a rifle. An unidentified off-duty state police trooper in the restaurant moved past workers toward the payment window and exchanged fire with the gunman. The gunman then left the restaurant and walked toward a street, firing at vehicles stopped at a red light, wounding three people, police said. At a nearby parking lot, the gunman went to a Tesla charging station and fired at three people in two Teslas, including the third person who died, 66-year-old Dale Schultz, of Salt Lake City, police said. Outside the Twin Falls Visitor Center, the gunman came across workers who evacuated from nearby stores. One of them started talking with the gunman, which let others get away from him, police said. "To that young man, you are a hero," Hicks said Friday. "Your courage, your composure, your selflessness in that moment likely gave others the time they needed to escape harm. In the middle of fear and chaos, you thought of others, and that kind of bravery deserves to be acknowledged." The gunman encounters a worker outside the Twin Falls Visitor Center in Idaho, Aug. 1, 2026. Twin Falls Police Department Police didn't identify the worker. Braxton Stuebe, who was working at a Dick's Sporting Goods store near the scene, told CBS affiliate KMVT-TV he came face-to-face with the gunman after running out of the store. "I saw the gun and I kind of just froze. I put my hands up and that's when he pointed the gun directly at me," he said. "The only thing I was really thinking was, don't try and make any sudden movements, don't try and run. Just hopefully talk to him and hopefully he can change his mind." "I said, I have a family. I said, you don't have to do this. I'll tell you whatever you want. I'll do anything," Stuebe said. Then, the gunman "just got like emotional, it seemed like. And he said to me, just get away from me, man." But a moment later, "He turns back around and kind of has a firearm on his hip. As he's walking backwards, he fires a shot towards me. Thankfully, he had missed me." Faris Tanyos contributed to this report. More from CBS News 5 dead in Thailand high school shooting after suspect kills grandparents Iran says strait won't open until the U.S. "corrects" behavior Child among 4 people killed in Russian attacks on Ukraine Entrepreneurship is booming in the U.S. Gen Zers are leading the way. Go deeper with The Free Press The Evil of the San Diego Mosque Shooting The Right Response to the Minneapolis ICE Shooting In: Shooting Idaho © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Latest on In-N-Out Idaho shooting Latest on In-N-Out Idaho shooting that killed 3 as police search for motive 01:58 Latest on In-N-Out Idaho shooting that killed 3 as police search for motive (01:58) 5 dead in Thailand high school shooting after suspect kills grandparents Iran says strait won't open until the U.S. "corrects" behavior Child among 4 people killed in Russian attacks on Ukraine The Evil of the San Diego Mosque Shooting Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue