Tanger CEO says World Cup drove up traffic, sales this summer Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Retail Tanger CEO says World Cup drove up traffic, sales this summer Published Wed, Aug 5 2026 11:48 AM EDT Laya Neelakandan @in/layaneelakandan @Laya_neel WATCH LIVE Key Points Tanger CEO Stephen Yalof told CNBC that the company saw increased store traffic and sales this summer because of tourism for the World Cup. The company has shopping centers in eight of the 11 host cities for the tournament. Yalof said because the company has multiple access points between retail, restaurants and entertainment, Tanger attracted new customers and built brand loyalty this summer. In this article SKT Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Steven B. Tanger, Executive Chair, Tanger, at the NYSE, May 10, 2023. Source: NYSE Tanger CEO Stephen Yalof said the store operator saw traffic increase in June and July due to international and domestic tourism tied to the World Cup. "We knew when you get these new visitors that come for a huge magnet event like World Cup, you've got one opportunity to introduce them to your brand, and then hopefully they become a great ambassador for the brand if they have a great experience," Yalof told CNBC on Wednesday. The company, which has shopping centers in eight of the 11 host cities for the tournament, said it also saw sales increase and its athletic brands perform strongly amid a boom in excitement and business around the World Cup. "Traffic drives sales. Traffic and sales always move together," Yalof said. "For the year, we're up about 5% sales-wise, which is pretty substantial." Yalof said the company saw World Cup tourists looking for a "real American experience," like eating at a Chick-Fil-A or listening to American music, noting that many of those options are located within the four walls of a Tanger center or next to one. "What we add to the mix is that value shopping experience, particularly in our outlet centers, which give these customers the opportunity to shop American brands like Polo and Michael Kors and Kate Spade and Coach and Nike, and buy that product at the best possible price," he added. Yalof said the company was prepared to take the most advantage of summer traffic from the World Cup to build "long-term customer loyalty" for its products and brands. He said the company also saw more domestic traffic, as more Americans choose to travel within the country this year due to rising oil prices and the current geopolitical macroenvironment. Because Tanger centers include retail, food and beverage, and entertainment, Yalof said the company saw customers come to its stores for one experience and stay for others. "That's what's going to keep us and make us top of mind when these people come back or when they go and they tell their friends about the wonderful experience they had when they came and visited," Yalof said. Tanger also reported strong second-quarter results on Tuesday afternoon, citing strength in "enhanced marketing and traffic-driving initiatives across our portfolio." On a call with analysts, Yalof added that the strength in the current movie business and box office has also helped. "People are coming early to enjoy the shopping, staying late and enjoying the dining," Yalof said. "And that flywheel that we've created and the new merchandising mix has really been a great customer draw." Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by