Europe's heat isn't cooling Asian travel demand Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Travel Europe's heatwave isn't cooling Asian travelers' holiday plans for the continent Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 7:27 PM EDT Jenny Lee @in/jenny-lee-102020a8 WATCH LIVE Key Points Asian travel demand remains resilient despite record-breaking heat across parts of Europe this summer. Searches for European destinations by Asian travelers rose 57% year on year, with conversion rates from searches to bookings also improving. Northern Europe has emerged as an increasingly popular destination for Asian travelers, including affluent tourists. In this article 9961-HK SIAL-SG Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Oscar Wong | Moment | Getty Images As Europe endures another summer of record-breaking heat, Asian travelers continue to flock to the continent, with little sign that soaring temperatures are dampening demand. The trend also reflects a broader diversification in Asian travel spending across Europe, as travelers spread their budgets across a wider range of destinations throughout the continent. Searches for European destinations by Asian travelers rose 57% year on year during the July-August travel season, with improved conversion rates from search to booking, said Edmund Ong, senior regional director, Southeast Asia at Trip.com . France, Italy and Spain remained the most popular European destinations by booking volume on the platform this summer, underscoring resilient demand despite recent shifts in weather patterns. At the same time, while flight bookings to both Southern and Northern Europe grew more than 30% from a year earlier, hotel bookings in Northern Europe doubled over the same period, suggesting travelers may be allocating a larger share of their European itineraries to cooler destinations in Northern Europe, said Ong. This travel demand comes as much of Europe grapples with record-breaking heat this summer, as temperatures top 40 degrees Celsius (104 Fahrenheit) across parts of the continent with Italy placing 25 cities, including Rome and Milan, under its highest-level red heat alert. Extreme temperatures aside, among affluent travelers, Southern Europe, particularly Italy and Greece, remain firmly on the agenda, said Clemmie Spendlove, head of marketing at luxury travel agency Lightfoot Travel. Interest in Scandinavia, which has been growing over the past two to three years, remains high, as travelers seek Northern Europe's cooler climate, with a growing number of luxury hotel openings across the Nordic region helping raise its profile, Spendlove added Likewise, inquiries for Norway, Iceland, Finland and the Dolomites have risen noticeably for summer travel compared with a year earlier, said Geraleine Yap, senior travel specialist for Europe, at luxury travel agency Scott Dunn. Many Asian guests now begin their holiday search by asking for "somewhere cooler" rather than a specific destination, with the trend most pronounced among travelers from Singapore and Hong Kong, added Yap. Broader spending data also points to resilient demand for Northern Europe among Asian travelers. Outbound travel spending to Norway is forecast to rise 8% among Chinese travelers and 4% among Singaporean travelers in 2026 from a year earlier, according to David Zhang, Asia Pacific insight manager, at Euromonitor International. Spending on Finland travel is also projected to increase, rising 8% among Chinese travelers and 3% among Singaporean travelers over the same period. Airlines are also seeing little sign of weakening demand. Travel to Europe remains healthy, with the airline's passenger load factor, a measure of how flight occupancy, at 85.5% on European routes in June, compared with an overall passenger load factor of 86.4%, a Singapore Airlines spokesperson said. Korean Air likewise said it has not observed any visible changes in demand stemming from the recent heatwaves, noting that long-haul bookings are typically made several months in advance. Travel companies also echoed that view, saying most European holidays are booked in advance and that they had not seen widespread cancellations or major changes to travelers' itineraries in response to the extreme temperatures. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by