--> Sara Gilson’s Ex ‘Begged’ Her to Break Up with Estranged Husband Before Murder (Exclusive) Skip to content PEOPLE Search Please fill out this field. Log In My Account Log Out Settings Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Subscribe Search Please fill out this field. Entertainment Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Awards & Events Sports Books Video Sexiest Man Alive Puzzler View All Crime Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History View All Human Interest Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals View All Lifestyle Lifestyle Food Home Travel Style Health View All Royals Royals British Royal Family News View All Health Shopping Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Shopping Subscribe Log In My Account My Account Log Out Settings Magazine Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Get more in our free app Follow Us Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Awards & Events Sports Books Video Sexiest Man Alive Puzzler Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Food Home Travel Style Health Royals British Royal Family News Health Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Products Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Subscribe 1 ‘Wheel of Fortune’ Announcer Jim Thornton Is Suspended as Show Investigates Allegations 2 Lionel Richie Expecting to Fly Home Tomorrow, Undergoing Cardiac Tests in ICU (Report) 3 Cher Slams Son Elijah Blue Allman’s Wife Over ‘Quest for Money’ in New Court Filing 4 Missing Grandmother of 4’s ‘Incredible’ Final Text Gave Family Peace Before She Vanished in Deadly Nepal Floods Sara Gilson’s Ex and Father of Her Kids ‘Begged’ Influencer to Break Up with Estranged Husband Before Her Murder (Exclusive) Lyle Landers tells PEOPLE that the influencer, who was murdered by Jeremiah “Shawn” Duffey on July 23, was “a beautiful person, inside and out” By Raven Brunner and Toria Sheffield Toria Sheffield Toria Sheffield is a Writer-Reporter on the Weekends News Team at PEOPLE. She joined the brand in 2024. People Editorial Guidelines Published on July 26, 2026 02:18PM EDT 130 Comments Lyle Landers; Sara Gilson. Credit : Facebook NEED TO KNOW Sara Gilson’s ex-husband Lyle Landers “begged” the influencer to break up with her estranged husband, Jeremiah ‘Shawn’ Duffey, before he murdered her, he tells PEOPLE exclusively Gilson was found dead in her Oklahoma home on July 23, weeks after she publicly accused Duffey of being a pedophile Landers remembered Gilson, with whom he shared two children, as “a beautiful person, inside and out” Sara Gilson ’s ex-husband “begged” the influencer to break up with her estranged husband before he murdered her . Lyle Landers tells PEOPLE exclusively that he did not approve of Gilson’s relationship with her estranged husband, Jeremiah “Shawn” Duffey. “Shawn had been a risk for her since they got together,” he says. “She had been stuck in a relationship where domestic abuse seemed ‘okay,’ “ Landers, 46, continues of Gilson, with whom he shared two children. “I had begged her for five years to get away from him. I had offered to help her, in any way I could, to get away from him. But he seemed to have some sort of control over her, and she couldn’t seem to get away.” The influencer, 43, was found dead in her Oklahoma home on Thursday, July 23. Gilson was shot by Duffey, 48, who then fatally shot himself, the Owasso Police Department confirmed to PEOPLE. Just weeks earlier, Gilson publicly accused Duffey of being a pedophile. Lyle Landers and Sara Gilson. Facebook Landers remembers his ex as “a mom, a daughter, a sister and a friend,” as well as “a beautiful person, inside and out.” “She loved people immensely, and without judgment,” he tells PEOPLE. “Her greatest achievement in life, though, was in our two babies.” “She was always so worried before we had kids that she wouldn’t know what to do, or that she wouldn’t be a good mom. Turns out, she was a great mom,” he continues. “She went over the top for our kids, and always made sure that they knew she loved them.” Landers also says Gilson “took great pride” in her work as a hairdresser. Our new app is here! Free, fun and full of exclusives. Scan to download now! According to Landers, he and Gilson divorced about seven years ago, but they had gotten to the point where they were friends. “It had been the best thing in the world for our kids, but also for us. We coparent as well as anyone, and it has shown in our kids,” he says. “She was a wonderful mother and would die for her children. In fact, her trying to protect children is what ultimately led to her death,” Landers continues of Gilson. On June 10, a woman filed a protective order against Duffey on behalf of her 15-year-old daughter, according to court documents viewed by PEOPLE. The minor was on a youth basketball team that Duffey coached. He allegedly kissed and touched her and was caught by another coach, the mother claimed, per The Oklahoman . The girl told her mother that Duffey engaged in additional inappropriate behavior, including sending her messages, inviting her to his hotel room during a tournament trip and offering her money “to keep her quiet.” Want to keep up with the latest crime coverage? Sign up for PEOPLE’s free True Crime newsletter for breaking crime news, ongoing trial coverage and details of intriguing unsolved cases. Gilson previously filed two protective orders against Duffey in 2021, according to court records viewed by PEOPLE. They were dismissed because Gilson did not appear at the hearing, per The Oklahoman . She filed for an emergency protective order against Duffey on June 10 and he was immediately ordered out of their home and to stay 100 yards away from her, court records viewed by PEOPLE show. On June 23, the protective order was extended through Aug. 24. Gilson alleged in her application for the protective order that Duffey had a gun, threatened suicide “and went on the run,” per The Oklahoman . Related Stories Influencer Sara Gilson Heard ‘Screaming and Crying’ by 911 Dispatcher Before Husband Killed Her After Pedophilia Accusations Influencer Sara Gilson Killed by Husband 2 Weeks After Accusing Him of Pedophilia on TikTok Landers previously paid tribute to Gilson through a Facebook post. He wrote: “Sara was a fun, life of the party girl, who loved her kids fiercely and would fight to the death for them.” “We did our best to always keep things comfortable and the same for our children, even though we weren’t together anymore,” he added, calling her death “unfathomable.” Sara Gilson. GoFundMe A GoFundMe has been established for Gilson and Landers’ two children. “Sara was an incredible mom. Her children were the center of her world, and everything she did was for them. She loved them fiercely, worked hard to provide for them, and dreamed of giving them the best life possible,” the description reads. “We are creating this GoFundMe to help support Sara’s children as they navigate the difficult days, months, and years ahead,” it continues. If you suspect child abuse, call the Childhelp National Child Abuse Hotline at 1-800-4-A-Child or 1-800-422-4453, or go to www.childhelp.org . All calls are toll-free and confidential. The hotline is available 24/7 in more than 170 languages. If you are experiencing domestic violence, call the National Domestic Violence Hotline at 1-800-799-7233, or go to thehotline.org . All calls are toll-free and confidential. The hotline is available 24/7 in more than 170 languages. Close Leave a Comment Read More: Crime Crime News Trending Now Man, 20, Arrested After His Sister, 21, Was Killed in Violent Crash During Alleged Street Racing Incident Crime August 23, 2026 Florida Dad Killed Trying to Break Up a Fight After Dropping His 10-Year-Old Daughter at School Crime August 13, 2026 College Student, 19, Was About to Break Up with Her Boyfriend. He Then Allegedly Strangled Her to Death and Fled to Germany Crime August 09, 2026 Comments All comments are subject to our Community Guidelines . PEOPLE does not endorse the opinions and views shared by readers in our comment sections. Account Settings Sign Out Related Articles Virginia State University Mass Shooting Leaves Several People Injured Just 2 Days Before Start of the Fall Semester By Nicholas Rice College Student Killed in Officer-Involved Shooting After Allegedly Trying to Enter Wrong House After Drinking with Friends By Kimberlee Speakman 19 Family of 6-Year-Old Girl, Who Died After Brother’s Badminton Racket Dislodged and Pierced Her Skull, Is Suing Manufacturer By Toria Sheffield 98 Man Who Allegedly Killed 70-Year-Old Father and Set His Home on Fire Arrested After Days-Long Manhunt By Desiree Anello Sara Gilson’s Best Friend of More Than 2 Decades Remembers the ‘Loving’ Influencer’s Last Day Alive (Exclusive) By Toria Sheffield Woman Bitten in Suspected Shark Encounter Off Martha’s Vineyard, Prompting Temporary Beach Closure By Sam Gillette Former World Champion Boxer Zolani Tete Dies at 38 After Being Shot Outside His Home By Desiree Anello Missing TikTok Star’s Body Found Partially Burned in Vineyard, 2 Men Arrested By Adam England 18 Captain Charged After Boat Capsizes Near Statue of Liberty, Killing Woman and 5-Month-Old Baby By Bailey Richards 32 Police Draw Public Criticism After Asking for Help Hunting Down ‘Suspect’ Who Found $30 on Ground of Walmart and Kept It By Brian Anthony Hernandez 89 9-Month-Old Baby Killed After Driver, Who Was Allegedly Unlicensed, Struck Mother Pushing Stroller in Store Parking Lot By Charlotte Phillipp 30 3 Found Dead Inside Texas Home, Fourth Hospitalized in Critical Condition, but What Happened Remains Unknown By Becca Longmire Woman Fighting for Her Life After Being Struck by Car Driven by Brothers, Ages 7 and 4, Family Says By Escher Walcott 398 Nurse Killed by Husband in Murder-Suicide While Going Through a Divorce Remembered as a ‘Beautiful Soul’ By Charna Flam 5 Arrested After ‘Inseparable’ Best Friends, Ages 16 and 17, Die in Multi-Vehicle Calif. Car Crash By Nicole Acosta 65 Mother, 18, Charged in 2-Year-Old Son’s Death After Boyfriend Allegedly Struck and ‘Severely’ Beat the Toddler By Desiree Anello PEOPLE Get more in our free app Newsletters Follow Us News Entertainment Royals Lifestyle StyleWatch Shopping About Us PEOPLE Tested Editorial Policy Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Terms of Service Advertise Your Privacy Choices PEOPLE is part of the People Inc. publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies