India-Bangladesh relations hit new low over exiled PM’s speech to press in Delhi | Bangladesh | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Journalists listen to the virtual address by Hasina, hosted by the Foreign Correspondents' Club of South Asia in New Delhi on Wednesday. Photograph: Anushree Fadnavis/Reuters View image in fullscreen Journalists listen to the virtual address by Hasina, hosted by the Foreign Correspondents' Club of South Asia in New Delhi on Wednesday. Photograph: Anushree Fadnavis/Reuters Bangladesh India-Bangladesh relations hit new low over exiled PM’s speech to press in Delhi Dhaka accuses India of giving platform to a ‘convicted genocider’ by allowing Sheikh Hasina to address journalists Redwan Ahmed in Dhaka and Penelope MacRae in Delhi Thu 6 Aug 2026 10.30 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 11.34 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Bangladesh has lashed out at India for allowing the ousted prime minister Sheikh Hasina to address journalists in New Delhi, plunging already strained bilateral relations to a fresh low. Dhaka accused India of giving a platform to a fugitive it labelled a “convicted genocider” and of undermining efforts to repair ties, after Hasina vowed to return to Bangladesh in December despite facing a death sentence on charges of “crimes against humanity”. The angry response late on Wednesday came hours after Hasina, speaking on the second anniversary of the massive student-led uprising that led to her flight to India, declared: “Whatever fate awaits me, I will return to my people.” Exiled PM vows to return to Bangladesh despite execution threat Read more Bangladesh’s foreign ministry said it was “outraged” Hasina had been allowed to participate in the event, where it said she and her allies launched “venomous vitriol” against Bangladesh and its people. “This interaction by Hasina on Indian soil stands as an affront to the sovereignty of Bangladesh,” the ministry said. Dhaka also renewed its demands for India to extradite Hasina. India earlier distanced itself from the news conference – Hasina’s first since fleeing Bangladesh in 2024 , saying it had no role in organising it and would not endorse any political views voiced. Hasina said she was ready to face whatever fate awaited her in Bangladesh, where her Awami League party is now banned. “They may put me in a cell. They may kill me. Anything may happen, but I still have to go,” the 78-year-old said via audio link. “My life moved beyond calculations of personal safety long ago.” After 15 years in power, Hasina fled to India in 2024 following weeks of student-led protests. Her government was accused of misusing state institutions to entrench its hold on power and stamp out dissent, including through the killing of opposition activists. In her speech, she dismissed criminal cases against her as politically motivated and accused Bangladesh’s new government, led by Tarique Rahman, of economic mismanagement, political repression and persecution of her supporters. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Weekly Sign up to This is India Niha Masih takes a look at the stories, ideas and news makers of modern India Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion Hasina was sentenced in absentia to death by hanging over her government’s deadly crackdown on the uprising. She said she wanted to return in December because it marked Bangladesh’s “month of victory”, commemorating Pakistan’s defeat in the 1971 independence war. She claimed thousands of Awami League activists had been killed or jailed since her downfall. Her son Sajeeb Wazed Joy stoked the diplomatic row by extolling India’s hospitality. “She’s being treated very well and has been provided with the full services and security accorded to a head of state,” he said. “Prime Minister Modi’s government has shown her the utmost respect.” Hasina was joined at the event by Shakib Al Hasan, a former national cricket captain. Hours later unidentified attackers hurled petrol bombs and smashed windows at his home in Bangladesh, but no one was hurt, police said. Shakib, elected to parliament as an Awami League candidate, has remained outside Bangladesh since Hasina’s overthrow. Explore more on these topics Bangladesh India Sheikh Hasina South and central Asia news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Exiled PM vows to return to Bangladesh despite execution threat 5 Aug 2026 Tarique Rahman sworn in as Bangladeshi prime minister 17 Feb 2026 Bangladesh election: BNP wins historic first vote since overthrow of Hasina 13 Feb 2026 Bangladesh Nationalist Party wins pivotal election – in pictures 13 Feb 2026 Tarique Rahman promises era of clean politics as Bangladesh holds first election since fall of Hasina 12 Feb 2026 ‘Women’s freedoms are at stake’: concern at rise of Islamist party before Bangladesh election 11 Feb 2026 The exiled Awami league members plotting a political comeback in Bangladesh – from India 3 Feb 2026 Ousted Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina sentenced to death for crimes against humanity 17 Nov 2025 ‘She should answer for what she did’: trial of ex-Bangladeshi leader Sheikh Hasina begins 2 Aug 2025 Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)