Care company fined for running illegal children's homes in legal first - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Care company fined for running illegal children's homes in legal first Image source, Getty Images By Levi Jouaval and Katie Inman Published 1 hour ago A care company has been prosecuted and fined for running illegal children's homes in what has been called the first case of its kind. Catalyst Care Limited is the first unregistered children's homes provider to be successfully prosecuted, according to Ofsted, which brought the legal action against it. Its directors pleaded guilty at Croydon Magistrates' Court in relation to failing to register children's homes and have been fined a total of £92,400. The Croydon company operated three homes in Kent between 2022-2025 which accommodated up to nine children. During this time the homes received over £1.7m million in payments from local authorities. Ofsted said this was despite it repeatedly warning directors they were breaking the law. All children's homes in England must register with Ofsted, and managing a home without a registration is a criminal offence. The directors, Miriam Ekhator and Davidson Lynch-Shyllon, were disqualified from carrying on and/or managing or having a financial interest in a children's home. They were also ordered to pay victim surcharges totalling £2,960, and costs of £17,250. Musa Raji, on behalf of Catalyst Care Limited, said the defendants' "focus was on the children in front of them and sadly not on the paperwork", and they "made mistakes, but did not act out of malice or greed". The prosecution said unregistered children's homes operate without oversight, meaning children who are placed there have no assurance of "safe or suitable care". Ofsted say in such homes there are no guaranteed checks on staff or living conditions and there is no accountability when things go wrong. But according to the regulator, the lack of available places in legitimate settings has led to a shadow market of illegal care homes . Ofsted promises to penalise councils using illegal children's homes Published 8 July Although the exact number of unregistered homes is unknown, Ofsted estimates there are around 900 illegal children's homes operating in England. In 2024 a report by the Children's Commissioner for England found that, at any one time, hundreds of vulnerable children were placed in unregistered homes for an average of six months each. Councils say that they are often forced to turn to unregistered children's homes because there are not enough registered homes in the right locations or homes that are willing to take children with very complex needs. Ofsted said increased funding will help them identify and investigate unregistered providers and that new powers granted through the Children's Wellbeing and Schools Act will allow them to issue fines. During the sentencing on Tuesday, Judge Sushil Kumar said it was of "great concern" that the defendants failed to register the homes despite receiving multiple warning letters. Daisy Wrigley, for Ofsted, told the court the number of unregistered children's homes in the UK was not known, which "highlights the importance of registering". Ofsted's chief inspector, Sir Martyn Oliver, said the prosecution "marks an important milestone in our efforts to tackle illegal children's homes and sends a clear message that operating outside the law will have consequences". He added: "We are currently consulting on proposals to downgrade local authorities who commission these illegal homes." Josh MacAlister, children and families minister who led a review into children's social care, called it a "welcome start to our wider crackdown". "Vulnerable children deserve to be safe and properly cared for, and I want to see more action of this kind," he said. Additional reporting by Jemma Crew. The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:01 Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack. 00:01:01, play video Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack 0:57 Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites. 00:00:57, play video Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport 1:01 What are the 'luteal uglies'? 00:01:01, play video What are the 'luteal uglies'? 0:59 Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 00:00:59, play video Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 0:40 US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak. 00:00:40, play video US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak 0:35 PC Harper's mother on early release for killers. 00:00:35, play video PC Harper's mother on early release for killers 0:41 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti. 00:00:41, play video 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti 0:54 Why Scotland's exam results come first. 00:00:54, play video Why Scotland's exam results come first 1:06 Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 00:01:06, play video Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 0:39 Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests. 00:00:39, play video Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests 1:09 Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos. 00:01:09, play video Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos 0:25 Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas. 00:00:25, play video Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas 0:45 Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer. 00:00:45, play video Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer 0:55 Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight. 00:00:55, play video Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight 0:27 Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend. 00:00:27, play video Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend 0:59 How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president. 00:00:59, play video How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president 1:57 Are some schools taking discipline too far? 00:01:57, play video Are some schools taking discipline too far? Top stories Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack Published 4 hours ago More than 170 migrants rescued after boat catches fire in Channel Published 2 hours ago Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece Published 2 hours ago More to explore Which area has the best grades? Key takeaways from Scotland's exam results How to avoid the worst of the Italian heat I left my wife and twins behind - why this Nigerian man fled South Africa Breast cancer checks missing most women under 50 who are at risk, says study There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger After three traumatic years at uni, I fear I won't get my dream nursing job Woman has pioneering womb surgery to fix 'miracle' baby with intestines outside its body Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC 'I said maybeeee...' Follow police investigations from the 999 call to conviction The return of the thrilling, award-winning drama about the CIA Tommy and John Fury debate what makes a home Most read 1 Athletes go 'missing' after Commonwealth Games ends 2 Princess Eugenie gives birth to baby girl in Portugal 3 Major search under way for boy, 13, missing at sea 4 Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack 5 Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece 6 Bono, Eddie Vedder and Hozier among mourners at Glen Hansard's funeral 7 Man 'driven insane' by noise admits killing fish 8 Care company fined for running illegal children's homes in legal first 9 Oil prices fall on hopes Strait of Hormuz could reopen 10 Ed Sheeran fined for failing to insure Aston Martin BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.