Women's Super League: St Helens 6-44 Wigan Warriors - Wigan hammer Saints - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Rugby League Scores & Fixtures Tables All Teams Wigan thrash Saints in opening Super Four game Image source, SWPix Image caption, Anna Davies is the joint leading try scorer in the 2026 Women's Super League By Adam Lanigan BBC Sport England Published 6 August 2026, 19:20 BST Updated 3 hours ago Betfred Women's Super League St Helens (6) 6 Tries: McColm Goals: Gaskin Wigan (22) 44 Tries: Derbyshire 2, Hunter 2, Davies, M Jones, Wilton, Foubister, Coleman Goals: Rowe 4 Wigan Warriors maintained their 100% record in 2026 as they comfortably saw off rivals St Helens in the first match of the new Super Four format. It was a fifth successive win for them over Saints in the past 12 months, including a 54-6 demolition in the Challenge Cup final at Wembley, as they underlined why they are the team to beat in the Women's Super League. The defending champions scored nine tries with two apiece for Ellise Derbyshire and Eva Hunter with further scores from Anna Davies, Molly Jones, Remi Wilton, Jenna Foubister and Mary Coleman at the BrewDog Stadium. St Helens were outclassed on home turf and had only a Luci McColm try on the stroke of half-time on a difficult evening. Whatever the format, though, there is no doubt that Wigan are the standard-bearers for the rest to catch. They scored from their first set as a high kick into the sun on the last tackle was spilled by young Saints full-back Liv Leach and bounced invitingly for Derbyshire to score. That was soon backed up by a fabulous individual try from Woman of Steel Hunter as she received the ball inside her own half and showed an irresistible combination of power, pace and sidestepping to score. To make matters worse for Saints, Leach had to be carried off the field and by the 15th minute the contest was nearly over as Davies went over in the corner after a gorgeous kick over the top from Izzy Rowe. Derbyshire and Hunter crossed for their second tries and only a poor conversion rate from Rowe prevented Wigan from being out of sight. With this, Saints finally gained some possession and repeat sets and McColm went over just before the interval. However, hopes of any kind of comeback never materialised as Jones' try on her first appearance of the season after a knee injury got Wigan moving again. And the champions simply were too hot to handle in the final quarter as Wilton, Foubister and Coleman went over as Denis Betts' side picked up from where they had left off in their last match nearly four weeks ago. What is the new format? This was the opening match in the new Super Four format introduced for the 2026 season. After seven rounds of games, with all sides playing each other once, the league has been split into a top four and a bottom four although all points have been carried forward. There are now six rounds of games over the next six weekends with home-and-away fixtures against the other three teams in their section in an attempt to have the best teams playing each other more often to increase competition and intensity. So Wigan play Saints, Leeds Rhinos and York Valkyrie twice, with the side who finishes top at the end of that securing a direct place into the Grand Final, second and third having a play-off to decide who else reaches that game and fourth missing out completely. Meanwhile in the Shield, for the sides from fifth to eighth after seven matches, the side finishing bottom at the end of the season will play the winners of the National Championship for the final remaining Super League spot in 2027. Next fixtures Saturday, 8 August: Leigh Leopards v Featherstone Rovers (13:00 BST) Leeds Rhinos v York Valkyrie (14:00) Sunday, 9 August: Huddersfield Giants v Barrow Raiders (14:00) St Helens: Leach; Rotheram, Hardcastle, Woosey, Hook; Drescher, Gaskin; Hoyle-Holdsworth, Casey, Rudge, Travis, McColm, Cunningham. Interchanges: Harris, Whitfield, Mottershead, McDonald. Wigan: Banks; Davies, Salihi, M Jones, Derbyshire; Foubister, Rowe; Coleman, Wilton, Sams, Hunter, C Jones, Williams. Interchanges: Marsh, Atherton, Dainton, Gentles. Referee: Denton Arnold. Related topics Rugby League St Helens Wigan Warriors Shorts Previous Next 0:44 Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup. 00:00:44, play video Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup 1:11 The incredible story of Yan Diomande. 00:01:11, play video The incredible story of Yan Diomande 1:06 'Athletes should speak up if they're struggling' 00:01:06, play video 'Athletes should speak up if they're struggling' 0:57 Curran and Ahmed still in England Test plans - North. 00:00:57, play video Curran and Ahmed still in England Test plans - North 0:32 Thousands welcome World Cup hero Vozinha in Chile. 00:00:32, play video Thousands welcome World Cup hero Vozinha in Chile 1:19 Afghan women's team can play again after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team can play again after ban 0:41 Rush emotional at exhibition honouring career. 00:00:41, play video Rush emotional at exhibition honouring career 1:20 Memes, burgers and Danny Dyer - British runners come clean. 00:01:20, play video Memes, burgers and Danny Dyer - British runners come clean 0:39 How Smalling went from A-levels to Premier League. 00:00:39, play video How Smalling went from A-levels to Premier League 1:22 Be your 'biggest cheerleader' - positive advice from Amy Hunt. 00:01:22, play video Be your 'biggest cheerleader' - positive advice from Amy Hunt 0:25 'I've been really impressed with him' - Arteta on O'Neill. 00:00:25, play video 'I've been really impressed with him' - Arteta on O'Neill 0:46 Chelsea's 16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli. 00:00:46, play video Chelsea's 16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli 1:15 How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? 00:01:15, play video How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? Top stories Vinicius Jr and Real Madrid agree new six-year deal Published 4 hours ago Uefa says boycott may still go ahead as FA withdraws Infantino support Published 5 hours ago Trafford joins Leeds from Man City in potential £45m deal Published 3 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC 'I said maybeeee...' Aviation is being reimagined for the changing planet A new high-stakes thriller crackling with danger Did Fenners score the first ever goal at the new Wembley Stadium? Elsewhere in Sport Players who turned World Cup heroics into big transfers A wanted man - but would Liverpool's Gakpo be a good fit at Spurs? Weekly sports quiz: Beckham at the Commonwealth Games? Newcastle appoint Jaissle - what should fans expect? Rockets march on after easy win against Phoenix. Video Rockets march on after easy win against Phoenix Lines to be first British woman in America's Cup team for 90 years How Buttler became T20 cricket's run-scoring GOAT Chelsea lose friendly as Juventus score stunning winner. Video Chelsea lose friendly as Juventus score stunning winner Why Liverpool are ready to make Barcola third £100m signing No WSL experience but who is new Man Utd boss Olid? Why £1m-a-season deal will be hard for Pollock and Hearn to find A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season Why we are still waiting for the 'Newey effect' - F1 Q&A The summer that changed Welsh football The ex-sandwich maker who cycles to Champions League games How Mumbai Indians takeover has affected MI London & Surrey Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.