Lake Powell levels decline below critical threshold • Nevada Current Skip to main content HOME NEWS Working + The Economy Justice Sustainability Education Health Care Housing Politics + Government Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Working + The Economy Justice Sustainability Education Health Care Housing Politics + Government 16:40 Brief Sustainability Undercurrent Lake Powell levels decline below critical threshold By Jeniffer Solis - March 16, 2022 4:40 pm The request includes $1.4 billion for Bureau of Reclamation water projects to deal with droughts that are expected to worsen in coming years.(Lake Powell in 2021, photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images) The second largest reservoir on the Colorado River has dipped below a key water level for the first time, despite emergency releases from upper basin reservoirs last summer and fall meant to prevent the troubling milestone. On Tuesday, Lake Powell fell under 3,525 feet above sea level, a critical threshold that gives water managers a 35-foot buffer to take action before water levels reach below the minimum level needed to generate hydropower for 6 million people in the southwest. The Bureau of Reclamation stated the dip is temporary and levels are expected to recover with spring runoff in May. However, the dry months that led to Lake Powell’s falling levels will likely continue as a mega-drought grips the southwest. The major reservoir is now just 25% full, due in part to drought and climate change. “This year the Colorado River Basin has experienced extremely variable conditions with a record high snowpack one month, followed by weeks without snow,” said Reclamation Acting Commissioner David Palumbo in a public statement . “This variable hydrology and a warmer, drier west have drastically impacted our operations and we are faced with the urgent need to manage in the moment.” Previous forecasts warned about the potential dip in March. The Bureau of Reclamation, which manages the reservoir, releases a monthly report outlining the potential for the lake to hit even lower levels during the next two years. The report, known as the 24-Month Study, projected three scenarios for elevation levels at Powell— a most probable outcome, as well as a best- and worst-case scenario. Dropping below 3,525 in March was projected as a worst-case scenario . Last year, the Bureau attempted to boost Powell by about 3 feet by releasing additional water from the upper basin reservoirs, including 36,000 acre-feet from Blue Mesa Reservoir in Colorado and 125,000 acre-feet from Flaming Gorge Reservoir in Wyoming. The strategic release from the upper basin reservoirs was in line with the Colorado River Basin Drought Contingency Plan, which was implemented by the Department of the Interior in 2019 and signed by California, Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, Wyoming, New Mexico and Utah. Ultimately, those releases did not prevent water levels from dropping below the critical threshold. The Bureau and the Upper Basin states are working on a Drought Operations Plan that will be released in April and will propose additional actions to help protect Lake Powell elevations in 2022 if necessary – a scenario that’s looking increasingly likely. X Republish Post Lake Powell levels decline below critical threshold by Jeniffer Solis, Nevada Current March 16, 2022 Lake Powell levels decline below critical threshold by Jeniffer Solis, Nevada Current March 16, 2022 The second largest reservoir on the Colorado River has dipped below a key water level for the first time, despite emergency releases from upper basin reservoirs last summer and fall meant to prevent the troubling milestone. On Tuesday, Lake Powell fell under 3,525 feet above sea level, a critical threshold that gives water managers a 35-foot buffer to take action before water levels reach below the minimum level needed to generate hydropower for 6 million people in the southwest. The Bureau of Reclamation stated the dip is temporary and levels are expected to recover with spring runoff in May. However, the dry months that led to Lake Powell’s falling levels will likely continue as a mega-drought grips the southwest. The major reservoir is now just 25% full, due in part to drought and climate change. “This year the Colorado River Basin has experienced extremely variable conditions with a record high snowpack one month, followed by weeks without snow,” said Reclamation Acting Commissioner David Palumbo in a public statement . “This variable hydrology and a warmer, drier west have drastically impacted our operations and we are faced with the urgent need to manage in the moment.” Previous forecasts warned about the potential dip in March. The Bureau of Reclamation, which manages the reservoir, releases a monthly report outlining the potential for the lake to hit even lower levels during the next two years. The report, known as the 24-Month Study, projected three scenarios for elevation levels at Powell— a most probable outcome, as well as a best- and worst-case scenario. Dropping below 3,525 in March was projected as a worst-case scenario . Last year, the Bureau attempted to boost Powell by about 3 feet by releasing additional water from the upper basin reservoirs, including 36,000 acre-feet from Blue Mesa Reservoir in Colorado and 125,000 acre-feet from Flaming Gorge Reservoir in Wyoming. The strategic release from the upper basin reservoirs was in line with the Colorado River Basin Drought Contingency Plan, which was implemented by the Department of the Interior in 2019 and signed by California, Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, Wyoming, New Mexico and Utah. Ultimately, those releases did not prevent water levels from dropping below the critical threshold. The Bureau and the Upper Basin states are working on a Drought Operations Plan that will be released in April and will propose additional actions to help protect Lake Powell elevations in 2022 if necessary – a scenario that’s looking increasingly likely. Nevada Current is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Nevada Current maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor Hugh Jackson for questions: info@nevadacurrent.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Jeniffer Solis Jeniffer was born and raised in Las Vegas, Nevada where she attended the University of Nevada, Las Vegas before graduating in 2017 with a B.A in Journalism and Media Studies. Nevada Current is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Nevada sues feds over Colorado River cuts by Jeniffer Solis August 24, 2026 Feds announce water cuts under new Colorado River plan by Jeniffer Solis August 21, 2026 Scientists define a new category of heat wave: ‘Snow eaters’ by Kate Yoder, Grist August 14, 2026 Policy, politics and commentary Democracy Toolkit // Register to vote | Contact your state legislators | Contact your U.S. representative | Contact your U.S. senator DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT Register to vote Contact your state legislators Contact your U.S. representative Contact your U.S. senator © Nevada Current, 2026 v1.134.6 ABOUT US Nevada Current is a nonprofit online source of political and policy news and commentary. We seek to demonstrate how policies, institutions and systems make life harder for Nevadans than it needs to be; document how things got that way, and; explore what it might take to fix them. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy © Nevada Current, 2026 v1.134.6 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.