Rail passengers face second day of disruption across north-west England | Rail transport | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland National Rail said a power failure at a communications centre affected five rail companies: Avanti West Coast, East Midlands, Northern, TransPennine Express and Transport for Wales. Photograph: Ryan Jenkinson/Getty Images View image in fullscreen National Rail said a power failure at a communications centre affected five rail companies: Avanti West Coast, East Midlands, Northern, TransPennine Express and Transport for Wales. Photograph: Ryan Jenkinson/Getty Images Rail transport Rail passengers face second day of disruption across north-west England Problems after power failure at regional signalling centre likely to continue until noon on Friday Business live – latest updates Lauren Almeida and Gwyn Topham Fri 7 Aug 2026 06.03 EDT First published on Fri 7 Aug 2026 03.02 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Rail passengers are facing a second day of travel disruption across parts of north-west England, after a power cut hit the signalling centre controlling the region . The power failure, which occurred shortly before 2pm on Thursday, temporarily halted trains and caused widespread cancellations and delays to services including CrossCountry and London Northwestern Railway. On Friday morning, services on Avanti West Coast, East Midlands Railway, Northern, TransPennine Express (TPE) and Transport for Wales continued to be affected. National Rail said on Friday that although trains were now able to operate, there could be delays until noon as several trains and crew were in the wrong locations for the start of service. “This means that some trains are still expected to be affected this morning. Trains across the Greater Manchester area and north-west of England may still be cancelled in full or revised to only run for part of their normal journey until service is able to fully recover,” it said. Northern Rail advised passengers not to travel before 10am today. TPE has told its passengers should prepare for disruption before midday today, with delays and cancellations to be expected. Greater Manchester , parts of the Midlands and north-west England were hit the hardest by the rail disruption, with thousands of passengers unable to complete their journeys. Trains were left stranded as signals turned to red across the part of the railway managed from the Manchester rail operating centre, one of 12 set up over the past 12 years to phase out signal boxes and manage the railway remotely. The power cut affected the area surrounding Manchester but Network Rail’s back-up generators, which should have kicked in automatically, failed to start immediately, causing signals to default to red and halting all trains. A controlled power-up and power-down to safely restart operations took several hours, with signalling fully restored only late on Thursday evening. Network Rail has launched an investigation. Chris Wright, Network Rail’s north-west route director, said: “I’d like to thank passengers for their patience after yesterday’s power outage and the disruption it caused across the north-west. Our engineers worked through the night to restore signalling systems and recover the railway, and I’m pleased that most services are now running this morning. He added: “Anyone planning to travel this morning should continue to check before they travel for the latest information.” The RMT union’s general secretary, Eddie Dempsey, praised train crew for handling the difficult circumstances, adding: “The impact of a 90-second power cut in an important operations centre in Manchester, covering a wide geographical area across the north-west, without a working backup supply has clearly been devastating. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Every weekday Sign up to Business Today Get set for the working day – we'll point you to all the business news and analysis you need every morning Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion “We will work with Network Rail to scrutinise how railway infrastructure coped and what actions need to be taken in the future.” National Rail said disruption on Thursday was aggravated by the discovery of a wartime bomb near the railway between Tamworth and Burton-on-Trent. Andy Bowes-Roden, deputy editor at Modern Railways magazine, told BBC Radio 5 Live on Friday there would be “quite a lot of disruption this morning easing throughout the day. “Hopefully by rush hour the service will be back to normal, but it won’t be until tomorrow morning that this will be sorted,” he said. “As rail passengers, we are lucky. We have protections and the railways are obliged to get us where they promise to get us. But there will be an awful lot of refunds.” Explore more on these topics Rail transport Rail industry North of England Network Rail Manchester Greater Manchester England news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Trains stop across north-west England after power cut hits signalling centre 18h ago More disruption to rail services in England as heatwave shrinks soil 28 Jul 2026 Rail passengers told to travel only if essential amid red extreme heat warning 22 Jun 2026 Train driver killed in Bedford crash named as family pay tribute 21 Jun 2026 Does Bedford train crash raise wider questions about safety? 21 Jun 2026 ‘There was panic’: shock and horror in the Bedfordshire village next to the train crash 20 Jun 2026 Nine people in critical condition after Bedford train crash kills driver 20 Jun 2026 Emergency services attend to injured after two trains collide near Bedford – video 20 Jun 2026 Most viewed Most viewed UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)