Student loan repayment rates an 'unsustainable burden', chancellor told - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Student loan repayment rates an 'unsustainable burden', chancellor told Image source, Getty Images By Hazel Shearing , Education correspondent and Rahib Khan , Education reporter Published 5 August 2026, 18:39 BST Updated 3 hours ago More than 120 MPs and peers have asked the chancellor to carry out an "urgent review" of the student loan repayment system. An open letter coordinated by the campaign group Rethink Repayment says the current set-up places an "unsustainable burden on the next generation of workers". Among the cross-party signatories are MPs with their own Plan 2 student loans, which have come under particular scrutiny this year. Last week, Education Secretary Lucy Powell said the interest rate on those loans was "egregious" and the issue was at the top of her in-tray. Current and former students have different student loan plans depending on where they live in the UK and when they went to university. The letter to Chancellor John Healey does not specify a particular plan signatories would like to be reformed, nor does it name a particular nation. However, the debate has centred around Plan 2 loans, which were taken out by students in England between September 2012 and July 2023 and are still issued in Wales. Graduates pay back what they earn above the repayment threshold at a rate of 9%. The letter says that "successive governments' adjustments to repayment thresholds – together with high interest and marginal tax rates – are placing an unsustainable burden on the next generation of workers". It says many middle-income graduates "see less than half of any hard-earned pay rise due to a combination of income tax, national insurance and student loan repayments". It adds: "We are united in the belief that the current repayment framework requires urgent review... to ensure it is fair, sustainable, and supportive of aspiration." Powell says student loan system at top of in-tray Published 28 July Phone contract comparisons 'amounted to mis-selling' student loans, MPs say Published 7 July 'Deeply misleading' school talks compared student loans to £30 phone contracts Published 3 March The letter refers to a decision taken last November by then-Chancellor Rachel Reeves to freeze the Plan 2 repayment threshold at £29,385 between 2027 and 2030, instead of allowing it to rise with inflation. The change would result in students starting to repay their loans sooner than they would otherwise have done, and their rising salaries leading to greater repayments. Campaigners want that decision to be reversed – a call echoed by the Treasury select committee in a report following its inquiry into student loans last month. The committee's report referenced a BBC investigation which found the government compared Plan 2 student loan repayments to £30-a-month phone contracts in promotional presentations to teenagers a decade ago. This was "inaccurate for higher earners", the report said, and "amounted to mis-selling". Student loans inquiry finds many did not understand terms Published 27 May How do student tuition and maintenance loans work? Published 18 June Phillipson defends student loan change and says average repayments will rise by £8 a month Published 24 February Voluntary student loan repayments rise in England Published 7 February Laura Trott, shadow education secretary for the Conservatives, and Munira Wilson, education spokeswoman for the Liberal Democrats, are among MPs who have signed the letter. Tom Gordon, Liberal Democrat MP for Harrogate and Knaresborough, also signed the letter and told the BBC he could not "see an end in sight" to his own Plan 2 student loan repayments. Instead, he said he expected his debt to be written off after 30 years in line with the repayment terms. "If someone earning an MP's salary still isn't likely to repay their student loan in full, what chance does someone on a much lower income have?" Gordon asked, adding it was "an issue of fairness". "Governments have changed the repayment terms and increased interest rates after people had already signed up," he said. "No bank or mortgage lender could retrospectively rewrite the terms of a loan like that. It simply wouldn't be allowed. So why should the government be able to do it?" Oliver Gardner, founder of Rethink Repayment, said the letter showed "the student loans crisis" was not "a partisan issue". "We believe that now is the time to create a system that is fair and that unshackles millions of graduates from mountains of student loan debt," he said. A Department for Education spokesperson said: "We know the system we inherited is broken and unfair, and some graduates feel the weight of this more strongly. "We want to make sure the student loans system works better for everyone and are considering our response to the Treasury Committee's inquiry." Get in touch Have you been affected by the issues in this story? Share your experiences Contact form Contact form Related topics Student finance Student debt Universities The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia 0:50 Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea. 00:00:50, play video Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea 1:01 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller. 00:01:01, play video 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:49 Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales. 00:00:49, play video Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales 0:59 The city closing down streets so children can play. 00:00:59, play video The city closing down streets so children can play 1:23 The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII. 00:01:23, play video The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII 1:30 What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK. 00:01:30, play video What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK 0:37 Crispy butter beans with whipped feta. 00:00:37, play video Crispy butter beans with whipped feta 0:57 Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites. 00:00:57, play video Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport Top stories Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate Published 1 hour ago Infantino remains Fifa president after executive meeting Published 25 minutes ago Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London Published 5 hours ago More to explore The cost of being single – and how friends are teaming up to beat it From flip flops to fisherman's sandals: How to look after your feet this summer 'My grandmother subjected my baby to female genital mutilation behind my back' 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' Kate Nash on Irish history, heritage and covering Sinéad O'Connor There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media 'This year has been the worst for my heat anxiety' Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Love shouldn't feel like fear How hydrated do you really need to be? Melvin Odoom on the MiniDiscs he can't throw away The origin story of the first Comic Con Most read 1 University of Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 2 Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London 3 See the Sun like never before with most detailed images yet 4 El-Sayed's victory sends tremors through Democratic Party 5 Family 'devastated' by death of girl, 9, as man charged with murder 6 Iran says it has agreed Strait of Hormuz shipping route with Oman 7 Student loan repayment rates an 'unsustainable burden', chancellor told 8 Apology after carer fed dog food to elderly woman by mistake 9 Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate 10 Drone carrying explosives found at German airport, police say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.