Bessent says Trump admin. is cracking down on undocumented immigrants' use of U.S. financial system - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Politics Bessent says Trump admin. is cracking down on undocumented immigrants' use of U.S. financial system By Richard Escobedo Richard Escobedo Richard Escobedo covers economic policy at CBS News and is a coordinating producer at Face the Nation with Margaret Brennan. He joined CBS in 2018 and is a graduate of Texas Christian University in Fort Worth, Texas. Read Full Bio Richard Escobedo August 6, 2026 / 6:15 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent says the Trump administration is moving quickly to crack down on criminal enterprises, cartels and undocumented immigrants using the U.S. financial system for their payroll schemes, illicit financing and other fraud. In remarks to Arizona bankers Thursday, Bessent said, "This administration will not tolerate blatant abuse of our financial system, nor will it permit risks posed by the extension of financial services to illegal aliens." He told the bankers the administration is relying on their help to make good on its efforts to root out fraud and financial schemes carried out by those in the U.S. illegally. "We do not ask bankers to assume the burdens of border enforcement," Bessent said. "But we depend on banks to do what you do best: know your customers, identify risks as they arise, and report suspicious patterns before they metastasize into criminal schemes." The renewed effort stems from an executive order President Trump signed in May directing Treasury and federal banking regulators to tighten oversight of financial activity linked to unauthorized employment. The president signed the order, titled "Restoring Integrity to America's Financial System," on May 19 and directed the Treasury Department, Federal Reserve, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, FDIC, National Credit Union Administration and Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to strengthen customer identification and due-diligence rules and to reassess how banks weigh credit risk for borrowers without work authorization. The order also set a timetable to implement the order, with advisories and guidance due within 60 days, a proposed customer due-diligence rule within 90 days and a customer identification proposal within 180 days, by November. Bessent said the Treasury Department has met the order's first deadlines. In June, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network issued guidance to help banks spot patterns tied to unlawful employment, labor brokers, shell companies, payroll tax evasion and identity theft. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency followed with an advisory on lending to borrowers not authorized to work in the U.S., instructing banks to weigh a borrower's "willingness and capacity to repay" as part of standard underwriting. Bessent said Arizona's compliance programs, employee training, suspicious-activity reporting and information-sharing reflect the kind of partnership the executive order envisions. In return, Bessent said, the Treasury Department is committed to giving banks better tools to catch fraud early, and he promised officials in Washington would listen more closely to community bankers. Legal and tax analysts caution that the order's effectiveness will depend on how the regulations are written. In a June 3 client alert, law firm Debevoise & Plimpton noted the order doesn't impose new compliance obligations on banks, though it does start agency actions that could reshape anti-money-laundering compliance, customer due diligence and lending standards. The CFPB is also weighing whether borrowers' risk of deportation and lost wages should be factors in determinations of their ability to repay loans. The firm noted the order stopped short of an earlier, more sweeping proposal that would have required banks to verify citizenship status for all customers. An analysis in June from KPMG's Washington National Tax practice similarly described the order as "a policy signal rather than an immediate change to any law, rule, or regulation." But the firm warned that if the review leads to stricter know-your-customer requirements, multinational employers and global mobility programs could see a slowdown in account openings and an increase in documentation demands for employees who rely on Individual Taxpayer Identification Numbers rather than Social Security numbers. This is a group that may include workers who are lawfully in the U.S., as well as those without authorization. Federal regulators had until July 20 to issue credit-risk guidance and the CFPB's ability-to-repay clarification, while the Treasury Department faces an Aug. 17 deadline to propose changes to customer due-diligence rules. A broader customer identification proposal is due by Nov. 16. Immigration More Trump voter pleads for fiancée's release after ICE arrest: "They're destroying families" FBI not conducting civil rights probe into ICE shooting in Maine, sources say ICE detentions set Trump-era high in July, as immigration crackdown widens Democrats demand training info on ICE agent who killed immigrant in Maine Spain deploys military to Morocco border after migrant crossings; 34 deaths Go deeper with The Free Press Exclusive: Trump Admin Tells Banks to Report ‘Domestic Terrorist Activity’ Trump Will Lose on Birthright Citizenship—but an Immigration Win Is Coming In: Scott Bessent Immigration © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. CBS News Live CBS News 24/7 Live CBS News 24/7 FBI not conducting civil rights probe into ICE shooting in Maine, sources say Where the Trump administration's lawsuits seeking voter data stand House Ethics probing Rep. Max Miller for alleged domestic violence, drug use Exclusive: Trump Admin Tells Banks to Report ‘Domestic Terrorist Activity’ Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue