Jeff Bezos just filed to sell $4 billion in Amazon. The shares are falling Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Markets Jeff Bezos just filed to sell $4 billion in Amazon. The shares are falling Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 9:12 AM EDT Updated 6 Hours Ago Yun Li @YunLi626 WATCH LIVE Key Points Bezos will sell 15 million Amazon shares with an aggregate market value of about $4.1billion, according to a new filing. The filing came after Amazon climbed to an all-time high on Monday, extending gains sparked by last week's quarterly results. In this article AMZN Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Jeff Bezos, founder of Amazon.com Inc., during the America Business Forum in Miami, Florida, US, on Thursday, Nov. 6, 2025. Eva Marie Uzcategui | Bloomberg | Getty Images Jeff Bezos filed plans to sell about 15 million Amazon shares worth roughly $4.1 billion, after the dominant e-commerce platform's stronger-than-expected earnings sent the stock to a record high, pushing its market value above $3 trillion. Amazon fell more than 2% Tuesday following the filing, which disclosed the planned sale under a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan adopted on Nov. 14, 2025. The sales occurred on Monday through Morgan Stanley, according to the filing. The filing comes after Amazon shares touched an all-time high on Monday, extending gains sparked by last week's quarterly results. The web services provider reported robust second-quarter earnings , led by stronger-than-expected growth in its cloud computing business, reinforcing investor confidence that its artificial intelligence investments are translating into accelerating demand. Shares of Amazon have rallied about 20% this year, well over the 12% gain in the S&P 500. Amazon year to date The Form 144 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission showed Bezos intends to sell 15 million common shares with an aggregate market value of about $4.07 billion, based on Monday's closing price. The filing noted the shares were acquired as founder stock in 1994. Bezos has regularly sold Amazon stock in recent years, often through prearranged trading plans, while continuing to rank among the company's largest shareholders. The filing also noted that he donated 220,200 shares to nonprofit organizations in May, which may have sold those shares during the preceding three months. watch now VIDEO 2:23 02:23 Jim Cramer shares his take on Amazon earnings Mad Money with Jim Cramer Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by