John Turner: Hampshire and England bowler retires aged 25 because of injury - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Hampshire Scores & Fixtures Tables Counties Hampshire and England bowler Turner retires aged 25 Image source, Getty Images Image caption, John Turner played four games for England on their tour of the West Indies in 2024 Published 2 hours ago Hampshire and England fast bowler John Turner has retired from cricket because of persistent injuries. The 25-year-old has not played for his county since last summer because of a stress fracture in his back. Turner, who was born in South Africa, represented England in two one-day internationals and two T20 games at the end of 2024 during their tour of the West Indies. He was selected in the England T20 squad the year before for their series against New Zealand, but was then ruled out through injury. "This has been one of the hardest decisions I've had to make," Turner said. Why Turner could be England's McGrath Published 16 August 2023 "The stress fracture, which has sidelined me for over a year, as well as my injury record, naturally made me think of my future both as a cricketer and away from the game, and subsequently, I decided now was the right time to pursue my next challenge." Turner made his debut for Hampshire in 2021, claiming former England captain Alastair Cook as his first wicket in a One-Day Cup match. In total, Turner played 51 matches for Hampshire across all formats, taking 97 wickets. During the T20 Blast in 2023 he claimed 21 wickets at an average of 11.76 and an economy of 6.67 - stats that earned him his first England call-up, months after playing for England Lions in New Zealand. He also played for Trent Rockets in The Hundred and alongside cricket completed his studies for an economics degree. "It was always my dream to play professional and international cricket, and doing so for Hampshire and England has been nothing short of living out those same childhood dreams," Turner added. Hampshire director of cricket Giles White said Turner had been a "huge part" of the club's success over the past five years. "John is an exceptionally talented player, and all of Hampshire Cricket is saddened that his journey in the professional game has come to an end," he said. "He has played a huge part in a successful period in Hampshire's history over the past five years, reaching four T20 Finals Days, challenging at the top of Division One in the County Championship, and making the final of the One-Day Cup twice." Related topics Cricket County Cricket Hampshire Shorts Previous Next 1:11 The incredible story of Yan Diomande. 00:01:11, play video The incredible story of Yan Diomande 1:06 'Athletes should speak up if they're struggling' 00:01:06, play video 'Athletes should speak up if they're struggling' 0:57 Curran and Ahmed still in England Test plans - North. 00:00:57, play video Curran and Ahmed still in England Test plans - North 0:32 Thousands welcome World Cup hero Vozinha in Chile. 00:00:32, play video Thousands welcome World Cup hero Vozinha in Chile 1:19 Afghan women's team can play again after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team can play again after ban 0:41 Rush emotional at exhibition honouring career. 00:00:41, play video Rush emotional at exhibition honouring career 1:20 Memes, burgers and Danny Dyer - British runners come clean. 00:01:20, play video Memes, burgers and Danny Dyer - British runners come clean 0:39 How Smalling went from A-levels to Premier League. 00:00:39, play video How Smalling went from A-levels to Premier League 1:22 Be your 'biggest cheerleader' - positive advice from Amy Hunt. 00:01:22, play video Be your 'biggest cheerleader' - positive advice from Amy Hunt 0:25 'I've been really impressed with him' - Arteta on O'Neill. 00:00:25, play video 'I've been really impressed with him' - Arteta on O'Neill 0:46 Chelsea's 16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli. 00:00:46, play video Chelsea's 16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli 1:15 How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? 00:01:15, play video How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? Top stories Live . European qualifiers: Rangers & Motherwell seeking first-leg away wins 5278 viewing 5.3k viewing Barcelona? Real Madrid? Man City's Rodri has a decision to make Published 4 hours ago Why has Mohamed Salah chosen Trabzonspor? Published 4 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC 'I said maybeeee...' Aviation is being reimagined for the changing planet A new high-stakes thriller crackling with danger Did Fenners score the first ever goal at the new Wembley Stadium? Elsewhere in Sport Players who turned World Cup heroics into big transfers A wanted man - but would Liverpool's Gakpo be a good fit at Spurs? Weekly sports quiz: Beckham at the Commonwealth Games? Newcastle appoint Jaissle - what should fans expect? Rockets march on after easy win against Phoenix. Video Rockets march on after easy win against Phoenix Lines to be first British woman in America's Cup team for 90 years How Buttler became T20 cricket's run-scoring GOAT Chelsea lose friendly as Juventus score stunning winner. Video Chelsea lose friendly as Juventus score stunning winner Why Liverpool are ready to make Barcola third £100m signing No WSL experience but who is new Man Utd boss Olid? Why £1m-a-season deal will be hard for Pollock and Hearn to find A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season Why we are still waiting for the 'Newey effect' - F1 Q&A The summer that changed Welsh football The ex-sandwich maker who cycles to Champions League games How Mumbai Indians takeover has affected MI London & Surrey Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.