Pakistan's ruling party leads in Kashmir vote despite boycott call by banned group : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Pakistan's ruling party leads in Kashmir vote despite boycott call by banned group Candidates backed by twice-elected former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif's Pakistan Muslim League-N party have won 24 of the 34 seats decided in the first two phases of voting, the election commission, said Wednesday. Asia Pakistan's ruling party leads in Kashmir vote despite boycott call by banned group August 5, 2026 12:06 PM ET By The Associated Press Motorcyclists navigate through a road barricaded with concrete blocks set up by supporters of the outlawed Joint Awami Action Committee (JAAC) during a protest demanding greater political rights and the abolition of 12 legislative refugee seats, in Muzaffarabad, the capital of Pakistan-administered Kashmir, Saturday, Aug. 1, 2026. M.D. Mughal/AP hide caption toggle caption M.D. Mughal/AP ISLAMABAD — Pakistan's ruling party has taken a commanding lead in elections for the legislative assembly in Pakistan-administered Kashmir, results from the first two phases of voting showed on Wednesday, despite weeks of protests and calls for a boycott by a banned political group. Candidates backed by twice-elected former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif's Pakistan Muslim League-N party have won 24 of the 34 seats decided in the first two phases of voting, said Raja Shakeel, a spokesman for the regional election commission. Turnout exceeded 56% in the regional capital. Shakee said voting for the remaining 11 seats is scheduled for Aug. 10, but the party is already on course to form the next regional government. Sponsor Message It marks the party's return to power in Pakistan-administered Kashmir after a decade. Shakeel said the elections are being held in three phases because of security concerns and heavy monsoon rains, which have complicated campaigning and made it difficult to hold large outdoor rallies. According to regional government and election officials said turnout exceeded 50% in many areas, including Muzaffarabad, despite security concerns and calls for a boycott by the outlawed Joint Awami Action Committee, or JAAC, which is notorious for holding violent protests. Sharif congratulated the winning candidates in a statement. Pakistan and India each administer part of Kashmir but claim the Himalayan region in its entirety. The nuclear-armed neighbors have fought two of their three wars over Kashmir since gaining independence from Britain in 1947. The election campaign was overshadowed by weeks of protests led by the JAAC, which in recent weeks has been urging residents not to vote. The regional government recently banned the group, citing security and public-order concerns. Supporters of the group repeatedly clashed with police ahead of Sunday's vote, but residents said they exercised their right of vote despite fears of violence. Analysts said the election reinforced public confidence in the democratic process, with voters choosing to cast ballots despite weeks of protests, violence and a boycott campaign by the JAAC. Sponsor Message The dispute has centered on 12 seats reserved for people displaced from Indian-controlled Kashmir since the end of British colonial rule. The JAAC argues the seats give disproportionate political influence to people living outside Pakistan-administered Kashmir and has demanded they be abolished. The controversy intensified in June when the region's Supreme Court ruled the seats are protected under the constitution and cannot be abolished without a constitutional amendment. The seats were created to ensure representation for people displaced from Indian-controlled Kashmir who settled elsewhere in Pakistan because Pakistan-administered Kashmir lacked the capacity to accommodate them. Many have lived in Pakistan' for decades, while others later moved to Pakistan-administered Kashmir. Authorities often accuse JAAC supporters of trying to disrupt the election and alleged that members of the Pakistani Taliban had infiltrated the protests. The JAAC has not responded to the allegations. The group, formed in 2023, demands greater political rights for the people of Kashmir and the government says it had accepted 36 out of the 38 demands, and the issue of reserved seats can only be resolved by the assembly. Pakistan Kashmir Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Law Judge reluctantly dismisses case against Oath Keepers militia group over Jan. 6 riot World Unrest mounts in Kashmir as Pakistani security crackdown stokes reform movement Asia Pakistani forces kill 24 militants in border raids near Afghanistan Health Black lung rates in Appalachia are high as the 1970s, with thousands of miners sick Trump's Terms Trump's third check-up at Walter Reed raises more questions about his health : Trump's Terms Asia Funerals held for 14 Pakistani children killed in tutoring center collapse More Stories From NPR Asia Ousted Bangladeshi leader vows to return from exile despite facing a death sentence Asia Under China's new 'unity' law, Tibetans fight to preserve language and culture Asia Rare photos of ex-Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi give her family hope World, reordering South Korea ditches 'denuclearization-first' strategy. What will Pyongyang do next? Asia U.S. dollar weakens sharply against the Japanese yen after market interventions Asia A blaze on an Indonesian passenger ferry leaves at least 5 dead and dozens missing Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Elections Progressives see biggest win yet in Michigan, while Trump flexes power over GOP Health Black lung rates in Appalachia are high as the 1970s, with thousands of miners sick Health Dr. Erica Schwartz confirmed as CDC director, filling a leadership vacuum Law Judge reluctantly dismisses case against Oath Keepers militia group over Jan. 6 riot National Arson suspect makes first court appearance as Spokane wildfires rage on It's Been a Minute The questionable new ways to surveil your friends NPR Editors' Picks World Cafe How Midwest doldrums became a gift for Kevin Morby Politics Progressive Abdul El-Sayed wins Michigan's Democratic primary for Senate Europe A Russian barrage in Ukraine's capital kills 17 as air defenses fall short Your Health Nicotine pouches can be marketed as 'lower risk' than cigarettes. Is that dangerous? The Ripple Effect How Deadheads became rock and roll's greatest renewable resource National MLS named LAFC co-owner Larry Berg as its next commissioner. Here's what to know Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices