The Hundred 2026 results: Welsh Fire captain Phil Salt would like extra week in competition schedule - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs The Hundred Men's Scores & Fixtures Women's Scores & Fixtures Men's Tables Women's Tables Squads I'd like Hundred to be longer - Salt Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Phil Salt struck 48 from 37 balls in a 125-run opening partnership with Matt Short for Welsh Fire against Manchester Super Giants By Mike Peter BBC Sport journalist at Old Trafford Published 5 August 2026 Welsh Fire captain Phil Salt would ideally like The Hundred to be a week longer after his side played three matches in five days. His second-placed side won at Birmingham Phoenix on Saturday afternoon and defeated Southern Brave in Cardiff on Monday evening, before losing to Manchester Super Giants on Wednesday afternoon. "It's been a little bit hectic the last few days," Salt told BBC Sport. "Birmingham, back to Cardiff, up here. It's a lot to be honest with you in five days and managing bodies through. "From a player's point of view I'd like this competition to be probably a week longer." The Hundred group stage takes place over 23 days with teams playing eight games in that period. In comparison, Indian Premier League sides each play 14 group games in a 56-day period, while in last season's men's Big Bash League in Australia teams played 10 group games each in a 36-day window. Since its introduction in 2021, The Hundred has further complicated a packed English summer schedule, with the Professional Cricketers Association (PCA) continuing to raise concerns about the impact on player welfare. In their response to the 2026 schedule, which saw the T20 Blast reduced by two matches, PCA chief executive Daryl Mitchell said , external the unchanged County Championship season "does raise concerns with player burnout with mental and physical dangers attached to an overly intense end to the season following the conclusion of The Hundred". Salt acknowledged the difficulties of finding more time in the schedule, while noting the impact the current scheduling had on his squad. "We import the best stars in the game for this. We've got on our side [the 6ft 8in tall] Marco Jansen and Lockie Ferguson," he added. "They've done a lot of time on the bus in the last three days! A bus that's not built for lads that size. "I'd like a bit more time in between to be honest with you, but I understand we're working with a pretty tight schedule already as it is. "I'm not the man for the answer on the schedule, I just like to magic another week of the year somewhere!" Welsh Fire return to action at Headingley on Sunday (14:30 BST) against Sunrisers Leeds, before playing their final group game at home to London Spirit next Wednesday. Figure caption, Record-breaking Buttler powers Super Giants to emphatic win over Fire Related topics Cricket The Hundred Franchise Cricket More on this story How Buttler became T20 cricket's run-scoring GOAT Published 14 hours ago Championship changes could be delayed or shelved Published 3 September 2025 Get cricket news sent straight to your phone Published 8 June Shorts Previous Next 0:32 Thousands welcome World Cup hero Vozinha in Chile. 00:00:32, play video Thousands welcome World Cup hero Vozinha in Chile 0:39 How Smalling went from A-levels to Premier League. 00:00:39, play video How Smalling went from A-levels to Premier League 0:46 Chelsea's 16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli. 00:00:46, play video Chelsea's 16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli 1:15 How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? 00:01:15, play video How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? 0:36 Salah mobbed by fans on arrival for Trabzonspor move. 00:00:36, play video Salah mobbed by fans on arrival for Trabzonspor move 0:38 What is the 'Bra-gate' controversy in cycling? 00:00:38, play video What is the 'Bra-gate' controversy in cycling? 0:30 Wilkinson's Welsh language progress. 00:00:30, play video Wilkinson's Welsh language progress 1:00 What has happened to Kulusevski? 00:01:00, play video What has happened to Kulusevski? 0:23 Why Monga chose Man City over Arsenal. 00:00:23, play video Why Monga chose Man City over Arsenal Top stories England recall Pope and Lawrence for Pakistan Tests Published 4 minutes ago Live . Fifa latest: Infantino remains president after tumultuous period 3195 viewing 3.2k viewing A wanted man - but would Liverpool's Gakpo be a good fit at Spurs? Published 4 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC Superman 1978: The classic superhero blockbuster What did we learn from D4vd's preliminary hearing? Follow police investigations from the 999 call to conviction Undressing the hidden history of underwear Elsewhere in Sport Players who turned World Cup heroics into big transfers A wanted man - but would Liverpool's Gakpo be a good fit at Spurs? Weekly sports quiz: Beckham at the Commonwealth Games? Newcastle appoint Jaissle - what should fans expect? Rockets march on after easy win against Phoenix. Video Rockets march on after easy win against Phoenix Lines to be first British woman in America's Cup team for 90 years How Buttler became T20 cricket's run-scoring GOAT Chelsea lose friendly as Juventus score stunning winner. Video Chelsea lose friendly as Juventus score stunning winner Why Liverpool are ready to make Barcola third £100m signing No WSL experience but who is new Man Utd boss Olid? Why £1m-a-season deal will be hard for Pollock and Hearn to find A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season Why we are still waiting for the 'Newey effect' - F1 Q&A The summer that changed Welsh football The ex-sandwich maker who cycles to Champions League games How Mumbai Indians takeover has affected MI London & Surrey Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.