TikTok Made Me Think About Everything I Wouldn't Add to Cart Skip to content Good Things Guy People Environment Business Travel Entertainment Lifestyle Fun Sport Opinion 4 Kids Charity Lists More Menu Search Search for: Menu Good Things Guy Search Search for: About Us Contact The Good Things Guy Get Involved Submit a Story Order Book More TikTok Made Me Think About Everything I Wouldn’t Add to Cart by Savanna Douglas @GoodThingsGuy July 23, 2026 July 22, 2026 1,017 0 Photo Credit: Canva TikTok’s ‘worth the money’ trend has inspired a different kind of list. Here are seven wholesome things that add value to life and don’t cost a cent! South Africa (23 July 2026) – If you’ve scrolled TikTok in the last week or so, you’ve probably been mentally adding things to your shopping list. There’s a trend doing the rounds where creators are sharing the things they believe are genuinely worth the money – the purchases they’d happily make again because they add real value to their lives. I’ve seen local creators recommend everything from air fryers, Woolies mince, service subscriptions, books, and beauty products to designer handbags, pilates memberships, cars, expensive tech and travel. Some of them are actually great recommendations. Others are a little more debatable. And, as with any social media trend, there are a few that come with a healthy dose of #ad. After scrolling past so many of those videos thinking, ‘There is no way I am spending my adult money on that,’ I found myself making a completely different list. Not of the things I’d buy, but of the things that make life richer without costing a thing. Photo Credit: Canva While many of us are being a little more mindful about how and where we spend these days, joy hasn’t suddenly become expensive. It’s actually flippen free. It’s the laugh that leaves your tummy sore. Your dog greeting you at the front door. Spotting the moon before you climb into bed. Or sitting around a braai where nobody notices how late it’s getting because the conversation is just that good. It’s a hug when you need one. A compliment that brightens someone’s day. Helping a stranger. Putting your phone down for an hour and remembering that the world is still pretty wonderful without a screen in front of you. None of that needs to be ‘added to cart.’ It’s all mahala. So, here’s my version of the trend. Seven things that are worth absolutely everything…and don’t cost a cent. Compliment a Stranger It costs absolutely nothing to tell someone something kind, but both of you usually walk away feeling a little brighter. A few weeks ago, we shared a story about The Compliment Revolution , where two Capetonians stopped strangers simply to tell them they were beautiful. The photos captured before and after each compliment said it all. People quite literally lit up. You never know what someone is carrying, and sometimes a few kind words are enough to remind someone that they’re seen. Be the light! Related Stories Santa Shoebox Pledges Open Today to Spread Joy Nationwide! South African Junior Chess Team Impresses at African Championship Photo Credit: Mariusz Szczawinski Move Your Body Notice I didn’t say exercise. Go for a walk. Dance around the kitchen while dinner’s on the stove. Stretch between meetings. Kick a ball around with your kids. Do whatever gets you moving. We recently featured Reece Kruser, who’s been running at least two kilometres every day this year. His story isn’t only about running, though. It’s about showing up for yourself. Moving your body almost always leaves you feeling better than when you started. Just do it! Do Something Kind for Someone Else I strongly believe that what you put into the world has a funny way of finding its way back to you. It’s ‘The Secret’. The law of attraction. And it doesn’t have to cost you a cent. Just hold the door open. Check in on a friend. Help a neighbour. Volunteer at your local animal shelter. Not only are you creating good ‘karma’ – if that’s what you believe in – it is also rewarding to know that you’ve made someone else’s day easier. It feels good to be good, and kindness has a ripple effect that reaches way beyond the moment you put it into the world. Photo Credit: Canva Spend Time in the Sunshine It’s amazing how often the answer is simply…go outside. Just 10 or 15 minutes outside can do wonders. It helps your body produce vitamin D, encourages better sleep, gives you a natural energy boost and has a wonderful way of lifting your mood. It’s no coincidence that so many of us feel a little more like ourselves after spending time outdoors. Get your bum in the sun, man! Do Hard Things Because those hard things become the stories you’re proudest of. Apply for the job. Make the phone call. Start the hobby. Sign up for the class. Go to the event even if you don’t know anyone. You don’t have to do something huge every day, but every now and then it’s worth reminding yourself that you’re capable of more than you think. Take an Everything Shower…Seriously! If you know, you know. An everything shower is exactly what it sounds like. Hair wash. Hair mask. Exfoliate. Shave if that’s your thing. Deep condition. Face mask afterwards. Moisturise from head to toe. Fresh pyjamas. Bonus points if you’re climbing into clean sheets afterwards. Use the products you’ve already got sitting in the bathroom cupboard, put on your favourite jams and enjoy an hour that’s entirely about you. It is worth it! Photo Credit: Canva Make Time for the People You Love It’s funny how seeing your favourite people can sometimes feel like a mission…until you’re actually with them. Then suddenly you’re wondering why you don’t do this more often. Spending time with the people you love is one of the most wholesome ways to recharge. We laugh more. We put our phones down. We remember stories we’ve forgotten. We feel seen. Yes, life gets busy. Everyone’s calendars are full. But making time for the people you love is one of those things you’ll almost never regret. Your cup ends up a little fuller, your shoulders drop and you leave with good memories. Why skimp on that? What’s on your list? Let us know! Sources: GTG Exclusive. Don’t ever miss the Good Things. Download the Good Things Guy App now on Apple or Google . Do you have something to add to this story? Please share it in the comments or follow GoodThingsGuy on Facebook and Twitter to keep up to date with good news as it happens, or share your good news with us by clicking here or click the link below to listen to the Good Things Guy Podcast with Brent Lindeque – South Africa’s very own Good Things Guy . He’s on a mission to change what the world pays attention to, and he truly believes there’s good news around us. In the Good Things Guy podcast, you’ll meet these everyday heroes and hear their incredible stories: Or catch an episode of Good Things with Brent Lindeque or our Weekly Top 5 below. The videos here are always changing, updated with the latest episodes from these two shows. Both are part of Good Things TV, created to bring South Africans balance at a time when the news can feel overwhelmingly negative. Our goal is simple: to remind you that there are still so many good things happening in our country – and to leave you feeling a little more proudly South African. by Savanna Douglas 0 Shares 0 Shares Share Tweet Share Share Pin it Email More Tagged: #AwesomeSA Awesome Change One Thing CHECKED Do good Don't Miss Exclusive Featured Good News Inspiration Lifestyle Motivation Social Media South Afri-CAN South Africa TikTok Trends Trending WOW About the Author Savanna Douglas Savanna Douglas is a writer for Good Things Guy. She brings heart, curiosity, and a deep love for all things local to every story she tells – whether it be about conservation, mental health, or SA's everyday heroes. When she’s not scouting for good things, you’ll likely find her on a game drive, lost in a book, or serenading Babycat – her four-legged son. Related Stories Ford’s Love Letter to South Africa and its Second Century Commitment September 2, 2026 September 1, 2026 Meet the DINKWADs: The Family Trend Changing Everything! September 2, 2026 September 2, 2026 Santa Shoebox Pledges Open Today to Spread Joy Nationwide! September 1, 2026 September 1, 2026 The Honesty That Moved Saskia After Sending Money to the Wrong Person September 1, 2026 September 1, 2026 South African Junior Chess Team Impresses at African Championship September 1, 2026 September 1, 2026 A Few Seconds on Screen Helps 40 Animals Receive Lifesaving Care September 1, 2026 September 1, 2026 You May Also Like Parktown High Learners Receive Generous Wool Donation September 1, 2026 September 1, 2026 CMWSA High Tea Invites Community to Dress Up and Support Special Needs Water Therapy September 1, 2026 September 1, 2026 One of the ‘Best Places to Travel in 2026’ Gets a Time Out! September 1, 2026 September 1, 2026 Leave a Comment Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Please enter an answer in digits: two × 5 = Subscribe To Feel Good Friday Would you like to receive truly phenomenal, inspirational and good thing stories right to your inbox. Then subscribe to our weekly GoodThingsGuy newsletter today. Please agree to the privacy policy below in order to subscribe to our newsletter. I accept GTG’s Privacy Policy . Trending Today Forget the Memes, Someone Built a Game About the Airlink Flyover! The Cape Epic is About to Get a Little More Local The Honesty That Moved Saskia After Sending Money to the Wrong Person South Africa’s First Estate Readiness Index Reveals a Nation Struggling to Prepare for Death SA Mom Creates Beautiful Storybook for Daughter With Rare Condition Where mind meets heart “The brave man is not he who does not feel afraid, but he who conquers that fear.” - Nelson Mandela About Good Things Guy GoodThingsGuy is the home of everything good, and those are the things that really matter! We believe that there is good news all around us and over 1 million readers a month agree with us. GoodThingsGuy was officially launched on the 1 August 2015 in order to only promote good news, inspirational stories and promote only positive, upbeat media. GoodThingsGuy is a global, multi-platform media company that distills unique content across multiple media platforms. We consider individual and corporate contributions through the website or mail us directly here. Newest Stories Ford’s Love Letter to South Africa and its Second Century Commitment September 2, 2026 Meet the DINKWADs: The Family Trend Changing Everything! September 2, 2026 Santa Shoebox Pledges Open Today to Spread Joy Nationwide! September 1, 2026 The Honesty That Moved Saskia After Sending Money to the Wrong Person September 1, 2026 Tags #AwesomeSA #TheGoodStuff Animals Awesome Cape Town Change One Thing Charity CHECKED Do good Don't Miss Environment Featured Good News Hero Inspiration International Lifestyle Social Media South Afri-CAN South Africa Sports The Good Stuff Trending Video WOW © Copyright 2026 by Good Things Guy . All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy