Aipac-linked Super Pacs spend millions in California to thwart progressive candidate | US midterm elections 2026 | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Aisha Wahab and Melissa Hernandez. Photograph: AP,Melissa Hernandez for Congress View image in fullscreen Aisha Wahab and Melissa Hernandez. Photograph: AP,Melissa Hernandez for Congress US midterm elections 2026 Aipac-linked Super Pacs spend millions in California to thwart progressive candidate More than $5m in recent weeks have been spent in ads targeting Aisha Wahab and in support of Melissa Hernandez Dani Anguiano Thu 6 Aug 2026 15.19 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 15.38 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Super Pacs tied to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (Aipac) have spent millions in a California congressional race to keep a progressive Democrat from winning Eric Swalwell’s former seat. Aisha Wahab, a state senator who has been endorsed by the California Democratic party, is widely considered the frontrunner in the special election for the district covering a swathe of the East Bay. Swalwell had been in office for more than a decade when he resigned earlier this year following multiple allegations of sexual assault. Wahab outpaced her closest competitor, Melissa Hernandez, a former Dublin mayor, in a June primary as well as a special election to complete the remainder of Swalwell’s term, by more than 20 points. They are set to face off against each other in a runoff election later this month, and then again in November. ‘He should resign’: unease in Republican Max Miller’s Ohio district amid domestic abuse allegations Read more Super Pacs are pouring money into the race, dropping more than $5m in recent weeks and supporting pro-Hernandez ads and Wahab attack ads, Politico reported on Thursday. The spending includes $1.2m from United Democracy Project, which is backed by Aipac, and $2.1m from Bold America Pac, which has received significant financial backing from the United Democracy Project, according to the outlet. Track Aipac, which tracks the group’s funding of US politicians, reported that the lobby has spent more than $4.4m to support Hernandez in the race. Aipac, which is one of the largest Super Pacs and the most powerful pro-Israel lobby organization in the US, has significantly expanded its political spending in recent years. The New York Times reported earlier this week that Aipac has doubled its spending, largely in Democratic primaries, to $67.2m. The organization spent millions to support moderate Haley Stevens in Michigan’s Democratic Senate primary. The progressive Abdul El-Sayed ultimately won the primary race in what has been described as a defining contest for the party. Wahab recently spoke about the negative advertisements against her, telling voters to come to her with questions about her record. She criticized Hernandez for allegedly dodging debates while “relying on dark money” to support her campaign. “We’re not going to let this race be bought by outside interests,” Wahab said in a video posted on social media. The Guardian has contacted Aipac, as well as the campaigns of Wahab and Hernandez for comment. Explore more on these topics US midterm elections 2026 California West Coast news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)