Woman has pioneering surgery for unborn baby with intestines outside its body - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Health Woman has pioneering womb surgery to fix 'miracle' baby with intestines outside its body Figure caption, Meet Theo: Baby who underwent pioneering surgery for birth defect while in womb By Camilla Horrox Global health reporter Published 3 August 2026 Doctors have used ground-breaking surgery on an unborn baby to successfully correct a birth defect while he was still inside the womb. His mother, Maisie Savage, from London, was operated on by doctors in the US while she was 26 weeks pregnant. Baby Theo, who is now five months old and thriving, had gastroschisis, where the belly button does not develop properly, causing the intestines to grow externally. Doctors partially exposed his mother's womb and then gently pushed his organs back inside his abdomen using keyhole surgery. He was the third baby in the world to benefit from the first-of-its-kind clinical trial. Maisie, 29, and Theo's father, Josh French, 36, both teachers, say they are incredibly relieved by the success of the pioneering surgery. "He's a little miracle, isn't he?" Maisie told BBC News. But they both know things could have been very different. The serious birth defect affects one in 3,000 UK babies each year. In the best-case scenarios, babies can require weeks in intensive care and nutritional feeding through a tube or IV and corrective surgery. For the most complex cases, like Theo's, outcomes are far more serious with up to six months in neonatal intensive care, multiple surgeries, IV nutritional feeding for up to two years, and a possible intestinal transplant. Even with the highest level of medical care, one in 10 babies will die. Image source, Maisie Savage Image caption, Theo became the first British baby to be operated on in the womb to correct complex gastroschisis Theo's parents initially had no idea anything was wrong with their unborn child. "Going towards a 20-week scan, we were purely just excited to have an image of our baby," said Josh. "We didn't know he was going to be a 'he' at the time." Josh said discovering Theo had gastroschisis had been a shock and "incredibly scary". At 24 weeks gestation, specialist doctors at London's Great Ormond Street Hospital (GOSH) had been preparing expectant parents Maisie and Josh for what the first six months of Theo's life were going to look like. However, after discovering he had the more serious condition of complex gastroschisis, doctors referred him to Texas Children's Hospital, in Houston. There, a team of foetal and paediatric surgeons, led by Dr Michael Belfort, had been leading a first-of-its-kind clinical trial to repair complex gastroschisis before birth. Belfort, the clinical lead on the trial, had previously pioneered a similar surgical procedure in the womb on babies with spina bifida. Image source, Maisie Savage Image caption, After the operation Theo was carried to term and born in Texas Maisie was told she would have to travel to Texas straight away and remain there for the rest of her pregnancy. "It was a huge decision," she said. As part of the trial she first had to travel to Leuven Hospital, in Belgium, where specialists needed to give Maisie a Botox injection through her womb into Theo's abdominal wall, to relax the muscles to make the repair easier. The family then flew to Texas where the operation was performed in November last year, 26 weeks into the pregnancy. Josh said he had had an agonising wait while doctors had operated on Maisie. "The length of that day, it felt like a week," he said. "The waiting and just not knowing exactly what was going on at each and every stage." Maisie's womb was partially exposed to position the uterus and baby, the amniotic fluid was drained and replaced with carbon dioxide (CO2) gas to expand the operating space. Using keyhole surgery, Theo's organs were then gently pushed back inside his abdomen, which was stitched closed. Image source, Texas Children’s Hospital Maisie was left with a scar, twice the size of a C-section incision. But unlike other women who are recovering from a C-section, she still had a baby to grow inside her for another 14 weeks. She said Theo would often kick inside her, hitting her scar and causing her pain. "It was a hard recovery," Maisie said. "But, it was worth it." The operation was a complete success and Theo was carried to term and born in February by vaginal delivery in Texas. Belfort, obstetrician and gynaecologist-in-chief at Texas Children's Hospital, said he and his team are very happy with the results so far. "The mother, the baby, the surgery, the time of the surgery, the fact that we had zero complications during the foetal surgery and after the foetal surgery, just remarkable." Image source, Texas Children’s Hospital Image caption, Belfort said he was stunned by the results of the surgery If the trial is a success, Paolo de Coppi, professor of paediatric surgery at GOSH and head of stem cells and regenerative medicine at University College London, would perform the procedure in the UK. "We hope that we will be able to offer this to patients in a larger scale very soon," he said. Belfort is excited about the partnership and said Texas Children's and GOSH working together will be a formidable team. And Belfort is already looking ahead to what he can do next. "The inside of the uterus is now a new surgical space for innovation," he said. "And spina bifida and gastroschisis are just two, but I believe that we could actually do certain cardiac surgeries in utero, and I think we can also do some lung surgeries in utero." Image caption, Maisie, Josh and Theo are now back to normality at home Back home in London, Maisie said Theo is doing amazingly. "Everything they did just completely reversed what could have been a really horrible start to his life and he's just the best. He's a completely normal baby essentially." "We both feel incredibly fortunate," Josh said. "The impact that they've had on us as a family is incredible. They made us feel so welcome from the team at Great Ormond Street to Dr Belfort and the team. "Whilst we were over there, the level of care was amazing, and they made a very traumatic time of our lives so much easier, and we've got this little man - we couldn't be happier." If you have been affected by any of the issues raised in this story, information and support can be found at the BBC's Action Line. Get our flagship newsletter with all the headlines you need to start the day. Sign up here. Related topics Health Surgery Pregnancy The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:55 Moment Trump phones during Nasa presser. 00:00:55, play video Moment Trump phones during Nasa presser 0:34 Norway's new King pays tribute to parents. 00:00:34, play video Norway's new King pays tribute to parents 0:28 PM confirms PC Harper's killers will remain in prison. 00:00:28, play video PM confirms PC Harper's killers will remain in prison 1:13 Where does 'the world is your oyster' come from? 00:01:13, play video Where does 'the world is your oyster' come from? 0:48 'Digital nomads are lying to you' 00:00:48, play video 'Digital nomads are lying to you' 1:24 Understanding disorganised attachment style. 00:01:24, play video Understanding disorganised attachment style 1:24 This family have been carving 'Crazy Horse' for eight decades. 00:01:24, play video This family have been carving 'Crazy Horse' for eight decades 0:29 How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 00:00:29, play video How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 1:27 Are older and younger generations in conflict? 00:01:27, play video Are older and younger generations in conflict? 1:18 Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 00:01:18, play video Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 0:48 Model's photos used to catfish women. 00:00:48, play video Model's photos used to catfish women 1:29 The inventor who refused to take no for an answer. 00:01:29, play video The inventor who refused to take no for an answer 1:01 E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths. 00:01:01, play video E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths 1:07 NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England. 00:01:07, play video NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England 0:52 Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion. 00:00:52, play video Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion 0:59 Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation. 00:00:59, play video Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation 0:35 Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend. 00:00:35, play video Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend Top stories Prisoners freed early are returning to jail at rapid rate, governors tell BBC Published 6 hours ago Live . Nepal intensifying efforts to free hundreds believed trapped in hydropower tunnels 2599 viewing 2.6k viewing Patel to be replaced by Tugendhat as shadow foreign secretary Published 16 minutes ago More to explore Six ways parents could make the return to school a little easier Dementia patient's deportation from Sweden delayed They fell in love - then had to check they weren't brother and sister Mount Fuji pics, life-changing ramen and a weak yen - why young Brits are going to Japan I was told I was unworthy to be a mother, then they stole my baby We all share a 15-acre Georgian mansion for the price of a two-bed house The 'aerial assassin' who overcame a serious injury to reach his wrestling dream Dolly Parton's dad couldn't read - it inspired her to send books to millions of children Politics Essential: Get the latest news and analysis delivered to your inbox every weekday Elsewhere on the BBC Low-key noughties sitcom starring Robert Webb and Paula Wilcox Keith Richards recalls how he wrote the iconic 'Satisfaction' An unlikely gang set out to catch a killer who shattered rural peace Did Emily ruin Paris? Most read 1 Patel to be replaced by Tugendhat as shadow foreign secretary 2 Prisoners freed early are returning to jail at rapid rate, governors tell BBC 3 Seven arrested after death of newborn baby girl 4 US strikes Iranian launchers on Larak Island in first known attack in weeks 5 UK raises case of British activist detained by settlers in West Bank with Israel 6 British woman killed in stabbing at German railway station 7 Eight killed and others missing after ferry capsizes off northern Cyprus 8 'Killers blocked from early release' and 'Harry should fund security' 9 Lola Young surprises Reading Festival with final day set 10 'A giant leap forward': Nasa launches powerful new space telescope BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.