Anti-Muslim US Congressman Andy Ogles loses Republican primary | US Midterm Elections 2026 News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up News | US Midterm Elections 2026 Anti-Muslim US Congressman Andy Ogles loses Republican primary Trump’s endorsement fails to save Tennessee legislator who recently said ‘Muslims don’t belong in American society’. Listen (3 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google Congressman Andy Ogles was first elected in 2022 [File: Mark Humphrey/AP Photo] By Al Jazeera Staff Published On 7 Aug 2026 7 Aug 2026 United States Congressman Andy Ogles , who has a history of anti-Muslim statements, has lost his Republican primary in the state of Tennessee despite the endorsement of President Donald Trump. Ogles’s loss on Thursday to Charlie Hatcher, the state’s former agricultural commissioner, represents a rare incident in which Trump’s endorsement failed to deliver in a Republican race. Recommended Stories list of 3 items list 1 of 3 How Abdul El-Sayed’s ‘extraordinary’ win stunned pro-Israel establishment list 2 of 3 DOJ sends monitors to Michigan poll sites as lawmakers warn of partisan aim list 3 of 3 Abdul El-Sayed wins Michigan Democratic primary for Senate in blow to AIPAC end of list Hatcher has also represented himself as pro-Trump, but the US president heaped praise on Ogles earlier on Thursday, giving the incumbent his “complete and total endorsement”. With nearly 90 percent of the votes counted, Hatcher had a 6.6-point lead over Ogles. The congressman, who was first elected in 2022, was running in a redrawn district after Republicans had changed the electoral map in the state to help the party retain its majority in the US House of Representatives. Hatcher will face Chaz Molder, the Democratic mayor of Columbia – a city south of Nashville – in November. The Republican nominee received a late endorsement from Tennessee Governor Bill Lee. The district favours Republicans, but Democrats are trying to capitalise on the discontent with the economy and the war on Iran to flip seats across the country. Ogles – a staunch Israel supporter – has faced outrage and condemnation from across the political spectrum for his comments against the Muslim community. “Muslims don’t belong in American society. Pluralism is a lie,” he wrote on X in March. In 2024, when an activist asked Ogles on Capitol Hill if he had seen footage of Palestinian children killed by US-funded bombs, he said: “You know what? I think we should kill them all, if that makes you feel better.” Advertisement Ogles paused, then added, ‘Everybody in Hamas.” Hatcher previously rejected Ogles’s anti-Muslim rhetoric. “There’s Muslims that are American citizens, that are good, law-abiding people, and there’s soldiers in the US Army that are good warriors, so absolutely,” he told the Williamson Scene, a local publication in June. Ogles is the second Trump-endorsed candidate to lose a primary this week. On Tuesday, Amir Hassan, a Navy veteran in Michigan who was supported by the president, lost to Thomas Smith, a candidate who had suspended his campaign before the election. The midterm election season in the US is in full swing. Both parties are choosing their candidates through primaries , state by state. All 435 US House seats and 35 out of 100 Senate seats will be up for grabs in November. Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network