Manufacturing survey shows inflation worries adding to pressure on Fed Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Economy Manufacturing survey shows inflation worries 'worse than pandemic era,' adding to Fed pressure Published Mon, Aug 3 2026 12:54 PM EDT Updated Tue, Aug 4 2026 10:42 AM EDT Jeff Cox @jeff.cox.7528 @JeffCoxCNBCcom WATCH LIVE Key Points The ISM manufacturing survey for July showed robust conditions for U.S. factories, with the primary index hitting its highest level since May 2022. But managers at some companies unfavorably compared pricing volatility to the Covid era. Continued inflation fears could add to pressure on Fed Chairman Kevin Warsh and his colleagues to raise interest rates in September. watch now VIDEO 2:01 02:01 ISM manufacturing gauge hits highest since May 2022 Squawk on the Street A burst in factory activity shows the U.S. economy may be escaping the burden of tariffs and gaining manufacturing jobs, while at the same time laboring under the geopolitical uncertainty that some industry leaders say is worse than the Covid pandemic. In its July survey of the manufacturing landscape, the Institute for Supply Manufacturing reported the fastest pace of growth in more than four years — a 55.6 reading that was the best since May 2022 and above Wall Street expectations for 54.0. The index measures the percentage of companies reporting growth, so anything above 50 represents expansion. Leading the way were strong gains in new export orders, backlogs and a 6.3-point spike in production. At the same time, the employment gauge hit its highest since August 2022 and marked an expansion for the first time in 33 months, ISM officials said. But concerns lurked beneath the surface of an otherwise positive report. The prices index edged lower, but only to 71.1, indicating that nearly three-quarters of all respondents reported that prices were heading still higher, the 22nd straight month that has happened. Moreover, the commentary pointed to a highly volatile environment in which purchasing managers were struggling to stay ahead of events like the Iran war and tariffs. 'Nothing but' price increases "No normalcy in sight in the world of metals," an executive in the primary metals sector said. "It makes me yearn for the coronavirus pandemic chaos, which was more manageable than whatever this is that we are in." A manager in the electrical equipment, appliances and components industry voiced similar concerns. "The pricing volatility and lead-time extensions in this market are arguably worse than the pandemic era," the respondent said. "During Covid-19, we saw a surge of price hikes and inventory buy-ups, which caused constraints that eventually leveled out." This time around, "We are seeing nothing but consistent upward trends for both pricing and lead times that show no signs of slowing down," the manager said. The ISM survey lists respondents by industry but not by name. From a policy standpoint, the manufacturing industry dynamic presents a challenge to the Federal Reserve that several analysts found likely to bolster the case for an interest rate increase soon. A solid economic picture with ongoing price pressures could push Fed Chairman Kevin Warsh and his colleagues into a hike as soon as September, particularly considering the seeming stability of the labor market. Around this time last year, officials were expressing substantial worry over a flat hiring picture, leading to three consecutive rate cuts starting in September. Inflation data for June was fairly positive, as a short pause in Middle East tensions drove down energy prices and shelter costs continued to moderate. However, virtually all pricing gauges show inflation still well above the Fed's 2% target. The Federal Open Market Committee last week voted to hold its key overnight interest rate in a range between 3.5%-3.75%, where it has been all year. Hike still in question "If trade is less of a drag this quarter and businesses restock inventories, economic growth could reach 2.2% in the third quarter. As a result of demand-induced inflation and energy supply shortages, the Warsh-led Fed will be pressured to raise rates on September 16," wrote Jeffrey Roach, chief economist at LPL Financial. Troy Ludtka, senior U.S. economist at SMBC Nikko Securities Americas, noted that the boost in the production index put it at its highest level since November 2021. "Strong payroll growth from two of the most interest rate sensitive sectors [manufacturing and construction] will enable the Fed to continue its hawkish communication drift," Ludtka wrote. Following the ISM report, Goldman Sachs said it is tracking third-quarter economic growth at 2.4%, up from the initial estimate of 1.5% for the second quarter. Traders, though, remained at least a bit skeptical of a coming rate hike in the wake of comments from Warsh last week that many market participants saw as ambiguous at most, in terms of the Fed's intentions. Odds for an increase at the Sept. 15-16 meeting of the FOMC stood at 64.5% midday Monday, down slightly from Friday, according to the CME Group's FedWatch . Still, analysts see continued inflation pressure likely forcing the central bank's hand. "Companies continue to complain about the pricing environment, and this report shows that this is not changing much," wrote Richard de Chazal, macro analyst at William Blair. "From the Fed's perspective today's [ISM] report should help tilt the scales further toward tightening policy at the September FOMC meeting." Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by