6 Best Pregnancy-Safe Shampoos to Use While Expecting IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Top stories Owala’s back-to-school sale is here The best keratosis pilaris treatments for smoother skin Packing your skin care and makeup is so much easier with this toiletry bag How often should you change and wash your towels REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gearpost Walmart has up to 65% off back-to-school must-haves 35+ college-exclusive back-to-school deals Skip to Content About Us Wellness All Wellness Skin Care Hair Care Oral Care Health Fitness Sleep Home All Home Small appliances Bedding & bath Cleaning Vacuums Office Gardening Kitchen All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech All Tech Electronics Personal Tech TVs Audio Computers Cameras Pets All Pets Dogs Cats Pet Care Lifestyle All Lifestyle Sports Travel Parenting Apparel Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping Subscribe Share About Us Wellness Main Menu All Wellness Skin Care Wellness All Skin Care Hair Care Wellness All Hair Care Oral Care Wellness All Oral Care Health Wellness All Health Fitness Wellness All Fitness Sleep Wellness All Sleep Home Main Menu All Home Small appliances Home All Small appliances Bedding & bath Home All Bedding & bath Cleaning Home All Cleaning Vacuums Home All Vacuums Office Home All Office Gardening Kitchen Main Menu All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech Main Menu All Tech Electronics Tech All Electronics Personal Tech Tech All Personal Tech TVs Tech All TVs Audio Tech All Audio Computers Cameras Pets Main Menu All Pets Dogs Pets All Dogs Cats Pets All Cats Pet Care Pets All Pet Care Lifestyle Main Menu All Lifestyle Sports Travel Lifestyle All Travel Parenting Apparel Lifestyle All Apparel Footwear Lifestyle All Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales Main Menu All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories Main Menu All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides Main Menu All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping More from NBC Sign up for the Selected Newsletter Check out Shop TODAY NBC News TODAY About Help Careers Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information CA Notice Terms Of Service NBC News Sitemap Advertise Ad Choices Follow Selected © 2026 NBCNEWS.COM NBC Selected independently determines what we cover and recommend. When you click on or buy through our links, we earn a commission. Learn more . Hair Care Do you need to use a pregnancy-safe shampoo while expecting? While shampoo can’t harm your baby, certain ingredients can exacerbate scalp dryness, dandruff and other concerns during pregnancy. Updated Aug. 6, 2026, 4:23 PM EDT Deanna Pai Contributing Writer and Editor Skip to table of contents For treating dandruff, stick with formulas with zinc pyrithione and selenium sulfide, and steer clear of potential irritants like sulfates and synthetic fragrances. fongbeerredhot / Shutterstock In this article Our top picks The best pregnancy-safe shampoos in 2026 How I picked the best pregnancy-safe shampoos How to shop for pregnancy-safe shampoo Frequently asked questions Meet our dermatology experts Why trust NBC Selected? See 4 More Pregnancy may bring about a streak of good hair days for some— courtesy of hormones making hair stronger, longer and less likely to shed — that doesn’t mean you have to stick with the status quo ahead of your due date. Dr. Camila K. Janniger , a board-certified dermatologist in Wallington, NJ, says hair and scalp concerns are common during this time. It’s possible to develop seborrheic dermatitis, for instance — a condition where the scalp is flaky and dry — as well as dandruff, or for an existing case to worsen. Since not all medicated options can be used during pregnancy, it can be difficult to find a pregnancy-safe shampoo. Moreover, some people might want to avoid certain controversial ingredients, like phthalates (found in fragrances) and parabens (common preservatives) during this time. That said, it’s critical to remember that there’s no firm evidence of any harm to your baby coming from these ingredients. “I’ve never counseled a pregnant woman to change any over-the-counter shampoo based on pregnancy — so I feel comfortable saying if you love shampoo and you’re pregnant, keep using it,” says Dr. Deirdre Hooper , a board-certified dermatologist at Audubon Dermatology in New Orleans, LA. “The data’s just not there to have your physician recommending against any over-the-counter shampoo.” However, if you want to err on the side of utmost caution, here are some options to consider. Selected. Our top picks Best overall Nécessaire The Shampoo $undefined $32.00 Amazon Learn more Best for dandruff Biolage Scalp Sync Anti-Dandruff Shampoo $undefined $26.00 Amazon Learn more Best scent-free option Seen Shampoo, Fragrance-Free $undefined $32.00 Amazon Learn more Related selected selected Nothing can prevent pregnancy stretch marks, but there are ways you can care for your bump Want more from NBC Selected? Sign up for our newsletter, The Selection, and shop smarter. The best pregnancy-safe shampoos in 2026 Best overall Nécessaire The Shampoo $ 32.00 Amazon $ 32.00 Sephora $ 32.00 Credo What to know Key ingredients: hyaluronic acid, niacinamide, aloe vera leaf juice What we like Fragrance free Looks nice Something to note Nothing to note at this time This shampoo comes recommended by Seattle, Washington-based board-certified dermatologist Dr. Heather Rogers. It has hyaluronic acid , niacinamide and panthenol, and the Seal of Acceptance from the National Eczema Association (meaning it’s been vetted by a panel of experts and is considered safe for those with eczema to use.) I also used this during my own pregnancy and found that my own scalp issues — flaking and itchiness — disappeared. While I’m not entirely sure whether this was the work of the shampoo, my hormones or both, I still loved the sleek design of the bottles and that it thoroughly cleansed my curly hair without stripping away moisture. Best for dandruff Biolage Scalp Sync Anti-Dandruff Shampoo $ 26.00 Amazon $ 26.00 Ulta What to know Key ingredients: glycolic acid, zinc pyrithione, fermented tea extract What we like Treats dandruff Moisturizing Something to note Has fragrance Using a blend of glycolic acid, zinc pyrithione and fermented tea extract, “this shampoo is considered safe in pregnancy to help address the redness, flaking and itching that can be associated with seborrheic dermatitis,” says Dr. Marisa Garshick , a board-certified dermatologist at MDCS Dermatology in New York City. It’s free of parabens, and is gentle enough for sensitive scalps, according to the brand. Best baby shampoo Burt's Bees Baby Shampoo $ 15.99 Amazon $ 15.99 Burt's Bees Baby $ 13.19 Target What to know Key ingredients: glycerin, citric acid, natural fragrance What we like Sulfate free Smells good Something to note Not very hydrating Baby shampoos are usually very gentle and free of irritants, which is why Rogers recommends using one. One option we like is this mild formula from Burt’s Bees, which we include in our guide to the best shampoos for babies. It’s formulated without sulfates, parabens, fragrance and phthalates. Plus, you can also use it as a body wash. Best scent-free option Seen Shampoo, Fragrance-Free $ 32.00 Amazon $ 32.00 Ulta $ 32.00 Seen What to know Key ingredients: hemisqualane, bisabolol What we like Fragrance free Moisturizing Something to note Too mild for oily hair This formula is designed by a dermatologist, and is free of almost every concerning ingredient you can think of — not only is it vegan, but it’s also free from fragrances, sulfates, phthalates, parabens and even silicones (which some people don’t like, as they can build up on hair and leave a residue over time). It has the Seal of Acceptance from the National Eczema Association and is formulated to be noncomedogenic, meaning it doesn’t clog pores. It has hemisqualane to reduce frizz and bisabolol to soothe the scalp, according to the brand. Best shampoo bar Community Goods Shampoo Bar $ 14.99 $ 16.49 Community Goods Now 9% off What to know Key ingredients: coconut oil, cocoa butter, shea butter, extra virgin olive oil What we like Minimal waste Sulfate free Something to note Has essential oils Designed for oily hair, this shampoo bar forgoes sulfates for coconut oil-derived surfactants.” It’s a great option because it’s free from harsh chemicals, making it safe for pregnancy — and it effectively cleanses while leaving the hair feeling fresh and invigorated,” says Garshick. You can choose from four formulations, each of which has its own scent (Citrus Squeeze, Coconut Vanilla, Lavender Rosemary, Peppermint Ice). Keep in mind: The scents are derived from essential oils, which can be irritating to some. Best for extreme dandruff and itching Nizoral Anti-Dandruff Shampoo $ 16.88 Amazon $ 16.89 Target What to know Key ingredients: ketoconazole What we like Addresses extreme dandruff Safe for all hair types Something to note Has fragrance and sulfates Dermatologists rave about this dandruff shampoo , which uses ketoconazole, an antifungal ingredient that tackles the Malassezia yeast — a buildup of which can contribute to dandruff. It’s gentle enough for color-treated hair and you can use it every few washes to control flakes, according to the brand. However, it does have fragrance and sulfates, which is worth factoring in. Related selected selected A healthy scalp equals healthy hair. These products will help. How I picked the best pregnancy-safe shampoos Before compiling this list, I asked dermatologists for their product recommendations, including options that target specific scalp conditions which might arise during pregnancy. I also included personal and top-rated picks, taking into consideration: Scalp concern : To control dandruff or seborrheic dermatitis, you may need special active ingredients, like zinc pyrithione. Fragrance : Fragrance can be irritating to the scalp, and can be an umbrella term on an ingredient list for other ingredients, like phthalates. Other questionable ingredients : Parabens, a common preservative, have been linked to hormonal disruptions, while sulfates, a cleansing agent, can have a drying effect. How to shop for pregnancy-safe shampoo First and foremost, you don't have to let go of your favorite shampoo due to pregnancy safety concerns. Most ingredients aren’t tested on pregnant women for safety (due to ethical concerns), so experts usually make recommendations out of an abundance of caution. Plus, “shampoos are not in contact with your skin for very long, so the risk of absorption of unwanted chemicals is lower than with skin care products,” says Rogers. However, if you do have a scalp issue like dandruff or seborrheic dermatitis — which can arise or come out of nowhere during pregnancy, possibly due to hormonal changes — you may want to use a medicated shampoo with active ingredients. Here, some common ingredients and how they might factor in: Zinc pyrithione: A very common ingredient used to treat dandruff, this is fine to use during pregnancy, according to multiple experts we interviewed. Selenium sulfide: This is considered safe during pregnancy. It works by “calming the inflammation that’s part of seborrheic dermatitis, which is really an inflammatory disease,” says Dr. Hooper. Salicylic acid : Some derms are on the fence about this ingredient, which helps get rid of the dead skin cells that cause plaque or flakes, but “in lower concentrations for seborrheic dermatitis, it should be safe,” says Janniger. (The max amount allowed over-the-counter by the FDA is 2%.) Ketoconazole : This antifungal ingredient is okay to use during pregnancy; it addresses the overgrowth of yeast that can lead to dandruff. “Research in Europe failed to show a risk to infants of mothers receiving ketoconazole,” says Janniger. Coal tar : Used to treat dandruff, this “is more controversial, with some saying it is safe to use and others recommending avoiding it,” says Rogers. “The EU Annex II Prohibited Substances, CA Prop 65 and Campaign for Safe Cosmetics consider it a carcinogen.” For that reason, she recommends avoiding it. In addition to the active ingredients, skim the ingredient list for questionable ingredients — like phthalates and parabens — to minimize irritation and stay on the safe side. “Phthalates might have the potential of damaging endocrine bodily functions,” says Janniger. Parabens might also disrupt hormones at high levels — although clear evidence remains to be seen — so if you’re being extra-cautious, she recommends keeping an eye out for methylparaben, propylparaben, butylparaben and ethylparaben in particular. And finally, although you might love to suds up with a delicious-smelling shampoo, “some essential oils, particularly when used in high concentrations, may pose risks during pregnancy as skin irritants,” says Rogers, pointing out rosemary, basil, jasmine and sage oils in particular. Ultimately, your best bet is a hypoallergenic, fragrance-free shampoo to keep irritation to a minimum, according to Garshick. Frequently asked questions Do you have to use special shampoo during pregnancy? Not necessarily, unless you want to err on the side of utmost caution or are dealing with a scalp concern. “When you are pregnant, your skin is more sensitive, so minimize exposure to ingredients that are common causes of irritation,” says Rogers. These include fragrance (which can also be a sneaky cover for phthalates), essential oils and sodium lauryl sulfate, she says. Is sodium lauryl sulfate in shampoo safe during pregnancy? Unless you have a dry or irritated scalp, there’s no pressing need to avoid sodium lauryl sulfate during pregnancy. Sulfates are a group of ingredients that act as surfactants, meaning they help deep-cleanse the scalp. The issue arises if you have scalp sensitivity; their thorough cleansing can sometimes be harsh. Meet our dermatology experts At NBC Selected, we work with experts who have specialized knowledge and authority based on relevant training and/or experience. We also take steps to ensure all expert advice and recommendations are made independently and without undisclosed financial conflicts of interest. Dr. Marisa Garshick is a board-certified dermatologist at MDCS Dermatology in New York, New York. Dr. Camila Janniger is a board-certified dermatologist in Wallington, New Jersey and a clinical professor of dermatology at Rutgers New Jersey Medical School. Dr. Deirdre Hooper is a board-certified dermatologist and the co-founder of Audubon Dermatology in New Orleans, Louisiana and a clinical assistant professor at Tulane University and Louisiana State University. Dr. Heather Rogers is a board-certified dermatologist at Modern Dermatology in Seattle, Washington and founder of skin care line Doctor Rogers . Why trust NBC Selected? Deanna Pai is a freelance beauty writer and editor who has been covering beauty and health for more than a decade, including topics like curl types and travel diffusers . For this article, Pai spoke to four dermatologists to narrow down the best pregnancy-safe shampoos to shop, and highlighted their recommendations about what to consider when shopping. Catch up on NBC Selected’s in-depth coverage of tech and tools , wellness and more, and follow us on Facebook , Instagram , Twitter and TikTok to stay up to date. Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off Deanna Pai Deanna Pai is a contributing writer and editor at NBC Selected. Do you need to use a pregnancy-safe shampoo while expecting? You can get 3 months of Audible for less than $1 before July ends Cómo escuchar tus audiolibros favoritos sin costo por meses en Audible (con Prime) Latest articles Ashley Morris contributed . Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off In this article Our top picks The best pregnancy-safe shampoos in 2026 How I picked the best pregnancy-safe shampoos How to shop for pregnancy-safe shampoo Frequently asked questions Meet our dermatology experts Why trust NBC Selected? ABOUT CONTACT HELP CAREERS PRIVACY POLICY DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION CA NOTICE TERMS OF SERVICE NBC NEWS SITEMAP AD CHOICES ADVERTISE DEALS & SALES SKIN CARE HEALTH TECH NBCNews.com © 2026 SELECTED | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.