Jailed funeral boss Robert Bush angers Hull families with 'apology' - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Families' anger at jailed funeral boss's apology letter Image source, BBC/Joe Bilton Image caption, Jasmine Beverley says she trusted Bush "with the most precious person in my life" By Linsey Smith and David McKenna , East Yorkshire and Lincolnshire Published 6 August 2026, 00:02 BST Disgraced funeral boss Robert Bush, who failed to bury or cremate people and gave grieving families the ashes of strangers, has offered those affected a written apology - but some have reacted angrily. Bush, 48, was jailed for 20 years at Hull Crown Court on Friday . Some 35 bodies and more than 100 sets of ashes were found by police who raided Legacy Independent Funeral Directors in Hull following a tip-off in March 2024. Jasmine Beverley, whose son's remains were discovered at the funeral parlour nearly two years after he was stillborn, said: "Reading the letter has left me feeling nothing but anger." This story contains details some might find distressing. Image source, Humberside Police Image caption, Robert Bush was jailed for 20 years at Hull Crown Court last week In his letter, Bush said he was "deeply sorry" for the "distress, upset and uncertainty" his actions had caused. He said he did not expect forgiveness, and had not written the letter in the hope of reducing the seriousness of what had happened. He also said he respected that some people may never wish to accept his apology, and said that was "entirely understandable". Funeral Home Horror The shocking story of a debt-ridden undertaker who betrayed grieving families. Watch on iPlayer The former undertaker admitted 67 offences, including 30 counts of preventing a lawful and decent burial, and theft from 12 charities. Prosecutors said Bush ran a "shambolic and chaotic" operation at the Hessle Road premises and his "appalling" offending had caused "extreme emotional pain, anguish and upset". On Wednesday evening, some of his victims reacted angrily to the letter. Beverley told the court how learning that her baby Sunny Beverley-Conlin was found in a brown paper bag on the floor of the funeral parlour "will stay with me for the rest of my life". Sunny's remains were recovered from the Hessle Road premises one year and 10 months after he was stillborn on 13 May 2022, the court heard. She was given a set of ashes by Bush the following March. Beverley said: "Reading the letter has left me feeling nothing but anger. "It reads as though he is apologising for our reaction and not his actions. "I don't have the luxury of separating my memories of Sunny from what happened because the memories I do have are tied directly to the mismanagement of the final act of love I tried to give him - his funeral. "This will haunt me for the rest of my life." Image source, Tristan Essex Image caption, Tristan Essex says his memories of his grandmother, Jessie Stockdale, are "tainted" after Bush kept her body for five months after her funeral Tristan Essex, whose grandmother, Jessie Stockdale, was one of the 35 bodies found at Legacy, said he was "absolutely disgusted" by the letter. "It's like he's mocking and tormenting us," he said. "Clearly, he is not sorry for the actions he chose, he's sorry for the consequences of his evil actions. "It looks like it's been generated by AI. It doesn't even make sense. "It's like he's laughing in our face." Essex said he thought the letter was "all about him [Bush]" and "hardly an apology". Robert Bush's letter in full: To everyone who has been affected by my actions. "I have spent a great deal of time thinking about the events that [sic] wish to say something directly to you. "I know that many of you entrusted me and my business with the care of someone you loved during one of the most difficult times in your lives. "I recognise that what happened has caused distress, upset and uncertainty for many families. I am deeply sorry. "There are no words that can undo what has happened or take away the pain that many of you have experienced. I understand that this has affected not only your confidence in me, but also memories surrounding the loss of those closest to you. "I accept responsibility for my failures. Looking back, I know that I should have acted differently and much sooner. I regret that I did not do so. "I do not expect forgiveness, nor do I write this letter in the hope of reducing the seriousness of what has happened. "I simply wanted you to know that I genuinely regret the consequences of my actions, and the impact they have had on so many people. "I appreciate that every family's experience has been different, and I respect that some people may never wish to accept my apology. That is entirely understandable. "I hope that, in time, each of you can find some peace and remember your loved one for who they were rather than for the circumstances that have followed. I am truly sorry." If you have been affected by issues surrounding bereavement, information is available via BBC Action Line , including contact details of organisations that can help. Listen to highlights from Hull and East Yorkshire on BBC Sounds , watch the latest episode of Look North . Related topics Hull Funerals More on this story Disgraced funeral boss who failed to bury bodies jailed for 20 years Published 5 days ago Moment police officers set foot in 'horror scene' funeral home Published 29 July Funeral director 'left baby's remains on floor for two years' Published 28 July Funeral director breached families' trust 'on industrial scale' Published 27 July Funeral fraudster motivated by money, says ex-worker Published 2 April Legacy funeral firm to be dissolved over debts Published 10 May 2024 From other local news sites AD FEATURE: UCNL launches specialist degree in Understanding Domestic Violence and Sexual Abuse External Grimsby Live Milestone reached on new Sea Road building in Cleethorpes External Grimsby Live Court round-up: Funeral director jailed, machete killer sentenced and child abuser locked up External Yorkshire Post Shock as musical tour with dates set for Leeds, York, Bradford, Hull and Sheffield cancelled External Yorkshire Post Seventeen super snaps from Leeds Anime & Gaming Convention External Yorkshire Evening Post Victims of ‘ticking timebomb’ cancer die without receiving justice, lawyers say External Yorkshire Evening Post Information about BBC links to other news sites The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:49 Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales. 00:00:49, play video Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales 0:59 The city closing down streets so children can play. 00:00:59, play video The city closing down streets so children can play 1:23 The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII. 00:01:23, play video The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII 0:37 Crispy butter beans with whipped feta. 00:00:37, play video Crispy butter beans with whipped feta 0:57 Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites. 00:00:57, play video Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens Top stories Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at Army teen college Published 5 hours ago Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns Published 3 hours ago Live . Fifa latest: Infantino remains president after tumultuous period 3798 viewing 3.8k viewing More to explore Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear in the office? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Rihanna is 'in the studio', says partner A$AP Rocky Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Families' anger at jailed funeral boss's apology letter Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Love shouldn't feel like fear How hydrated do you really need to be? Melvin Odoom on the MiniDiscs he can't throw away The origin story of the first Comic Con Most read 1 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 2 Meredith Kercher's sister criticises Amanda Knox comedy show 3 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at Army teen college 4 Why phones on loudspeaker may become just another noise 5 Meta becomes latest firm to say its AI hacked another company 6 Families' anger at jailed funeral boss's apology letter 7 Car washes and vape shops can still sponsor skilled foreign workers despite visa changes 8 Iran says deal with Oman on Strait of Hormuz is in final stages 9 The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon 10 Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear in the office? BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.