FAA Clears Boeing 737 MAX 7 Following Nearly 10-Year Review – Gate Checked News Airline News Airport News Accommodation News Route News Travel News Flyer Talk Reviews Airline Reviews Hotel Reviews Hotel Review Map Travel Ideas Adventure Beaches and Islands Food and Drink Sight Seeing Plan Your Trip Apps Baggage Fees Entry Requirements Newsletter News Airline News Airport News Accommodation News Route News Travel News Flyer Talk Reviews Airline Reviews Hotel Reviews Trip Ideas Adventure Beaches and Islands Food and Drink Sight Seeing Sports Events Plan Your Trip Apps Baggage Fees Booking Entry Requirements Warnings and Restrictions By Region Caribbean Central America Middle East United States Airline News FAA Clears Boeing 737 MAX 7 Following Nearly 10-Year Review By Bradley Wint - Aug 3, 2026 - Featured image: Boeing Link copied to clipboard! It’s official, Boeing has been granted an amended type certificate for the Boeing 737 MAX 7. Following almost a decade of work, the certification process finally came to a close, paving the way for the entry of the new aircraft sub-type. In a statement, the Federal Aviation Administration said: “The approval reflects years of sustained work to resolve complex technical issues and complete a thorough review of the airplane’s design and supporting safety analyses. Throughout the process, the FAA performed or directly reviewed significant work involving flight controls, system safety assessments, human factors, flightcrew alerting, and other novel, complex, or safety-critical areas, while also requiring testing, design changes, and additional analysis where necessary.” In a separate statement, Stephanie Pope, president and CEO of Boeing Commercial Airplanes said: “This important certification validates the rigor of our airplane’s design and recognizes the determination and resilience of our 737 MAX development team. “Our team of dedicated engineers and test experts worked through challenges, an extended pandemic, and the transition to new certification processes. Through it all, our team stayed focused on completing all requirements and delivering a safe and more capable airplane to our customers.” The MAX 7 (and MAX 10) feature updates to the flight-control software, flight crew alerting system, and a redesigned engine anti-ice system. The FAA has said it will also maintain safety inspectors on site, monitor the manufacturing process, including observing and assessing Boeing’s Safety Management System (SMS) and safety culture. This is obviously a huge milestone for the aerospace manufacturer. While the MAX 8 and 9s were certified prior to the two MAX 8 crashes, the MAX 7 and 10 would eventually face massive delays as a result of this and the passing of the Aircraft Certification, Safety, and Accountability Act. The new act requires aircraft certified after December 2022 to include improved warning, caution and advisory systems, as well as provide measures to help pilots better prioritize corrective measures and deal with system failures. Initially this spelt doom for the MAX 7 and 10 as it would require extensive redesigning of the flight deck and associated systems and procedures, and would have to be certified under a different type rating. To get around this, Boeing was eventually allowed to proceed without having to design a new Engine Indicating and Crew Alerting System (EICAS). However, they still needed to build a Synthetic enhanced Angle-of-Attack system (eAOA) to help detect when a physical AoA sensor is faulty. Boeing also had to develop a means to silence erroneous stall warnings and erroneous overspeed warnings (among other things). Certification for the MAX 10 is also in the works as Boeing is working on finalizing its documents for review before it can be included in the amended type certificate. Credit: Southwest Airlines The MAX 8s and 9s will be subject to these changes as well. The FAA will no longer issue an airworthiness certificate based on previous standards for the MAX 8, 8 200, and 9 one year after the MAX 10’s certification. After three years, no MAX-family aircraft will be allowed to operate in the United States unless they have been produced or retrofitted with the required updates. Boeing will also be required to cover all the costs necessary to facilitate these upgrades. So far, Southwest Airlines is the only commercial carrier with orders for the MAX 7, with 269 units in the books. There are other smaller orders, but so far, these are for business jet and VIP operators. There are about 30 MAX 7s already built for Southwest, but they will now need to be brought up to the new spec before they can be delivered to the carrier. Sign up for the free Gate Checked newsletter here sent three times weekly. Add as preferred source on Google Follow on WhatsApp Comments ( ) View All and Comment Conversation Most Recent Stories Full Circle: American Airlines Bringing Back Seatback Displays On Narrowbodies Air France Adding Panama To Caribbean Network All-Electric Heart X1 Completes First Test Flight, Paving The Way For 30-Seat ES-30 Airliner FAA Bumps Up Allowed Arrival Count At San Francisco International Airport More Stories Like This JetBlue Previews “BlueFirst” Domestic First-Class Seating British Airways Airbus A350-1000 Stranded In Barbados For Nine Days Following Belly Fairing Puncture American Airlines Adding Porto, Vienna And Reykjavik In 2027 Summer Expansion American Airlines Increasing Premium Seating On Narrowbody Aircraft Airline News American Ditching First Class On Boeing 777-300ERs In Major Cabin Retrofit Accommodation News The Pyrmont Curaçao Opening Delayed Until November 2026 Accommodation News Hotel Riu Palace Aruba Re-Opens Following Much Need Renovations Airline News Lufthansa Now Charging Extra For Business Class Window Seats On A380 Flights Route News Beond Airlines Bets Big On Red Sea Connections Subscribe for free travel and aviation news updates (3x weekly) About Us Press Editorial Disclosures Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms Of Service Comment Policy DMCA © 2026 Gate Checked Media. All rights reserved. Made in