Gianni Infantino latest: Fifa chief calls executive meeting as criticism mounts - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Football Scores & Fixtures Tables World Cup Follow Your Team Pre-Season Fixtures Gossip Transfers Women European Leagues & Cups Quizzes Infantino calls executive meeting as criticism mounts Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Gianni Infantino was first elected as Fifa president in 2016 By Dale Johnson Football issues correspondent Published 4 August 2026, 11:45 BST Updated 1 hour ago Gianni Infantino has summoned senior leaders of football's world governing body to a meeting in Morocco on Wednesday, after another day in which its president has faced fierce criticism of his plan to sell off Fifa's commercial and event operations. Fifa's chief of global football development Arsene Wenger, secretary general Mattias Grafstrom, and Prince Ali, president of the Jordanian Football Association, all made clear their opposition to Infantino's Fifa Forward Enterprise. Infantino, who has been in Morocco over the past week, called an executive meeting in Rabat as he attempts to find a solution to the controversy. Wenger said in a statement issued through Fifa that scrapping the plan was "absolutely necessary and beyond question". Grafstrom called the last week "a sad and reproachable series of events" in an internal email to Fifa staff. Prince Ali, meanwhile, accused Fifa of creating a situation which "amounts to blackmail" over unpaid prize money and support for Infantino's re-election. Wenger has been in a role which encompasses data analysis of the game, Fifa's online training and youth competitions, since 2019. The former Arsenal boss previously supported Infantino's proposal to play the men's World Cup every two years. A week after Infantino's investment plan was first released, the Frenchman issued a statement through Fifa in which he demanded "transparency and integrity" from the body. "The recent events at Fifa deserve some clarity from my side," Wenger's statement read. "I was not involved in this strategic plan and first became aware of the project through media reports. "The decision to withdraw the project was absolutely necessary and beyond question, because I firmly believe in an independent Fifa that serves our game with commitment, transparency, and integrity." Wenger is one of 18 Fifa officials named in a document preservation letter Uefa sent to Fifa threatening legal action. Carlos Cordeiro - Infantino's senior adviser on global strategy and governance - is the only Fifa official to resign over the scandal, saying the proposal was "a bad deal for football" and would "mortgage football's future". The problem is with leadership - Prince Ali Meanwhile, Prince Ali has accused Fifa of withholding prize money earned from being runners-up at the Fifa Arab Cup in December. Before the World Cup final, Infantino said he had received more than 200 letters of support from the 211 member associations for his re-election - Jordan being one of the few not to back him. Prince Ali, writing on X, , external claimed prize money had not been paid and Fifa tried to use this to gain support for Infantino. "It is clear the problem really is with leadership," he wrote. "For months, Fifa has been refusing to help us - until it was verbally communicated to me during the World Cup that if I endorsed Infantino it would go a long way to helping our FA out. "We pride ourselves in Jordan in upholding ethical values. We did not endorse him before and certainly will not now. "But the whole situation amounts to blackmail and we refuse to give in to that." Prince Ali has twice run for the Fifa presidency. In 2015, he lost out by 133 votes to 73 to Sepp Blatter - who resigned nine days later. In 2016, he finished third in the election in which Infantino become Fifa president. He also alleged in the social media post that Jordan supporters with tickets had been denied visas to enter the United States this summer to watch their debut World Cup appearance. Fifa has been approached for comment. Difficult to comprehend and accept - Grafstrom Grafstrom joined the criticism of the plan, writing in an internal memo to staff that last week had been "difficult to comprehend and accept". The Swede is seen as a close ally of Infantino, becoming Fifa's chief of staff after the Swiss was elected president in 2016. He was elevated to secretary general, one of the most powerful positions in Fifa, in 2024. "A sad and reproachable series of events - which were thankfully concluded with the project permanently abandoned - for as much as we feel dismayed by them, should not overshadow this reality," Grafstrom wrote. "We have all been thrown into the middle of a turmoil, which is difficult to comprehend and accept. "I urge you to remain focused on what has always united us: serving football and serving our 211 member associations, hand in hand with all relevant stakeholders and in full compliance with the Fifa statutes and Fifa regulations. "I assure you that you as members of the administration, you will be defended and safeguarded from the political context we currently experience. You do not need to worry. "Individuals, unstable moments and unfortunate episodes come and go. The institution, its mission and its responsibility towards world football continue, and that is why we should always keep our professionalism, sense of perspective and composure." Related topics Football More on this story Follow your club with BBC Sport Published 8 June Listen to the latest Football Daily podcast Get football news sent straight to your phone Published 8 June Shorts Previous Next 1:29 Could Pollock be paid £1m a season? It's complicated... 00:01:29, play video Could Pollock be paid £1m a season? It's complicated... 0:27 Maresca very similar to Pep - Foden. 00:00:27, play video Maresca very similar to Pep - Foden 0:41 Wenger speaks out about Infantino's World Cup plan. 00:00:41, play video Wenger speaks out about Infantino's World Cup plan 0:59 Why does a Swedish club want to pay £1m for a National League player? 00:00:59, play video Why does a Swedish club want to pay £1m for a National League player? 1:30 Goodburn's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Goodburn's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:33 Alonso on Mudryk's first day back with Chelsea squad. 00:00:33, play video Alonso on Mudryk's first day back with Chelsea squad 0:58 Aston Villa finally register signing after court battle. 00:00:58, play video Aston Villa finally register signing after court battle 0:59 Mudryk is back, but what actually happened? 00:00:59, play video Mudryk is back, but what actually happened? 0:52 Legends and fans in Milan mourn Baresi. 00:00:52, play video Legends and fans in Milan mourn Baresi Top stories Infantino calls executive meeting as criticism mounts Published 1 hour ago Turkish club Trabzonspor begin talks to sign Salah Published 21 minutes ago Drinking culture embedded in cricket - Stokes Published 9 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC Detective Lindo and the team are back in a brand new series Professor David Keith answers questions on climate engineering The chilling story of how a debt-ridden undertaker betrayed grieving families The return of the thrilling, award-winning drama about the CIA Elsewhere in Sport Why £1m-a-season deal will be hard for Pollock and Hearn to find A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season Runs and records galore as Sunrisers beat Spirit in men's Hundred. Video Runs and records galore as Sunrisers beat Spirit in men's Hundred Why we are still waiting for the 'Newey effect' - F1 Q&A Meet the £1m-rated non-league star Abdulmalik The summer that changed Welsh football The ex-sandwich maker who cycles to Champions League games Inside Liverpool's summer so far - should fans be worried? How Mumbai Indians takeover has affected MI London & Surrey From European hopes to relegation form - will Moyes reignite Everton? 'Nothing is strange' - how clubs prepare for the transfer window 'No guarantees' - joyful Glasgow cannot banish all Commonwealth doubts Finucane 'screaming inside' after record-breaking Games Dog walk and expletive text - key findings in Vondrousova anti-doping case Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.