Anthropic AI created fake profiles to deceive people in attempted hack - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Tech Anthropic AI used fake profiles to target people in hack then hid the evidence Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Some of the most serious attempts came from Anthropic's AI Claude Mythos By Kali Hays and Imran Rahman-Jones , Technology reporters Published 5 August 2026, 01:02 BST Updated 10:24 BST Two of the world's most powerful AI tools created fake human profiles to try and trick people in attempted cyber-attacks, the UK's AI Security Institute (AISI) has revealed. In the most serious case, Anthropic's Mythos AI tried to gain access to a service by sending private messages, having set up fake accounts mimicking real people - then hid the evidence. It comes shortly after the two companies involved in the AISI testing - Anthropic and OpenAI - separately revealed in recent weeks instances of their tech hacking into other companies. The firms said, in this latest case, the AISI's test had reduced or removed normal safeguards. The AISI said on that Tuesday Mythos - and OpenAI's Sol - AI models had engaged in a level of "autonomy and deception" it had not seen before. It clarified most of the malicious actions were carried out by Mythos. AISI evaluators first noticed "unusual data transfers leaving our research systems" during a test, then found that "some of the agents being tested had engaged in sustained, potentially harmful activity directed at real people and organisations". In the most serious case, a Mythos agent followed the routine of a human cyber-attacker by trying to trick people into giving it access to GitHub, a large platform where technology developers store software code. The agent was trying to get "malicious code" accepted and used on GitHub's system. It identified and researched the people who maintained GitHub and created a series of fake accounts based on those real people. It sent messages and files through a file-sharing service as part of an effort to pressure and trick the people into approving its malicious code. When challenged, "it edited its earlier activity to appear harmless and considered adopting a fresh identity to continue," AISI said. Throughout the attempts, it was human review that stopped the agent from succeeding in delivering the malicious code to GitHub. While AISI said the Mythos agent had not been instructed specifically to avoid or carry out such behaviour, it was "the first time we have seen risks around autonomy and deception manifest this clearly, without specific prompting, in the real-world". The rival AI companies, which are poised to be listed on the public stock market, have been in the headlines in recent weeks after announcing their tools were responsible for several cyber-hacking incidents. Anthropic's Claude AI escapes to hack into three organisations Published 5 days ago OpenAI says its rogue AI tried to hack other companies Published 7 days ago Anthropic wrote in a public statement that the AISI testing parameters were "not representative of any of our production models". It added that the company is conducting its own investigation into the incident in order to "identify the causes of its behavior". A spokesperson for OpenAI said the AISI testing conditions "do not reflect ordinary use" and that the company would "continue working with evaluators and other stakeholders across the industry to strengthen shared practices for conducting evaluations safely as models become more capable". AISI said on Tuesday its testing of AI models in this way was routine, though it acknowledged these were "conditions that do not reflect how frontier models are made available to the public". But it said giving AI access to the open internet gave "a more realistic sense of what a model may be capable of" in the hands of nefarious hackers. It added that the model behaviour at issue amounted to "a small number of events under very specific conditions". Nonetheless, it said the way Mythos and Sol acted in response to a straightforward task went outside of what the AI tools were prompted to do. "The activity undertaken by the agent showed signs of novel, potentially deceptive behaviours, and were to an extent and severity we did not anticipate", AISI said. AI Minister Kanishka Narayan said identifying and sharing these types of risks "is exactly what AISI was set up to do". He added it was important to understand AI to "make it safer to use and ensure people can go on to benefit from it in their lives and at work". The relevant tests started on 25 July and were spotted by AISI on 28 July. The Institute had asked each of the models to "solve a cybersecurity challenge" that involved GitHub, the software code repository, which is owned by Microsoft. GitHub and the affected users were notified by AISI of the attempted breaches. GitHub told the BBC it had disabled the fake accounts in accordance with its policies. Additional reporting by Chris Vallance AI firms must answer for rogue bots, says boss of hacked company Published 5 days ago Amazon and Apple just told us more about their AI plans - here are three things we learned Published 5 days ago What is AI and how does it work? Sign up for our Tech Decoded newsletter to follow the world's top tech stories and trends. Outside the UK? Sign up here . Related topics Artificial intelligence Cyber-security Cyber-attacks The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia 0:50 Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea. 00:00:50, play video Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea 1:01 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller. 00:01:01, play video 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:49 Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales. 00:00:49, play video Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales 0:59 The city closing down streets so children can play. 00:00:59, play video The city closing down streets so children can play 1:23 The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII. 00:01:23, play video The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII 1:30 What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK. 00:01:30, play video What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK 0:37 Crispy butter beans with whipped feta. 00:00:37, play video Crispy butter beans with whipped feta 0:57 Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites. 00:00:57, play video Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport 1:01 What are the 'luteal uglies'? 00:01:01, play video What are the 'luteal uglies'? Top stories Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate Published 48 minutes ago Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London Published 4 hours ago University of Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns Published 1 hour ago More to explore The cost of being single – and how friends are teaming up to beat it From flip flops to fisherman's sandals: How to look after your feet this summer 'My grandmother subjected my baby to female genital mutilation behind my back' 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' Kate Nash on Irish history, heritage and covering Sinéad O'Connor There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media 'This year has been the worst for my heat anxiety' Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Love shouldn't feel like fear How hydrated do you really need to be? Melvin Odoom on the MiniDiscs he can't throw away The origin story of the first Comic Con Most read 1 University of Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 2 Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London 3 Family 'devastated' by death of girl, 9, as man charged with murder 4 El-Sayed's victory sends tremors through Democratic Party 5 See the Sun like never before with most detailed images yet 6 Student loan repayment rates an 'unsustainable burden', chancellor told 7 Apology after carer fed dog food to elderly woman by mistake 8 Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate 9 Drone carrying explosives found at German airport, police say 10 Anthropic AI used fake profiles to target people in hack then hid the evidence BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.