Newscast - Why Does The Government Keep Releasing Prisoners Early? - BBC Sounds Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds Bitesize CBeebies CBBC Food Home News Sport Business Technology Health Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live More menu Search Sounds Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds Bitesize CBeebies CBBC Food Home News Sport Business Technology Health Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Close menu BBC Sounds Sounds home page Menu Home Music Podcasts My Sounds Use BBC.com or the new BBC App to listen to BBC podcasts, Radio 4 and the World Service outside the UK. Find out how to listen to other BBC stations Episode details News , · 04 Aug 2026 , · 34 mins Why Does The Government Keep Releasing Prisoners Early? Newscast Play Bookmark Bookmark Subscribe Subscribe Available for over a year Today, there has been more criticism from victims’ families over plans to release some prisoners early. Under the policy, due to begin in October, thousands of prisoners will be eligible to be released part way through their sentences. Ministers announced last night that prisoners guilty of rape, serious child sex offences and grooming will be excluded. Adam is joined by home and legal affairs correspondent Dominic Casciani and Pia Sinha former prison governor and chief executive of the Prison Reform Trust. And, after a humbling few days for President Trump is he able to reclaim the initiative before the US midterm elections? Adam is joined by Americast’s Anthony Zurcher. You can now listen to Newscast on a smart speaker. If you want to listen, just say "Ask BBC Sounds to play Newscast”. It works on most smart speakers. You can join our Newscast online community here: https://bbc.in/newscastdiscord Get in touch with Newscast by emailing newscast@bbc.co.uk or send us a WhatsApp on +44 0330 123 9480. New episodes released every day. If you're in the UK, for more News and Current Affairs podcasts from the BBC, listen on BBC Sounds: https://bbc.in/4guXgXd Newscast brings you daily analysis of the latest political news stories from the BBC. The presenter was Adam Fleming. It was made by Jack Maclaren with Anna Harris. The social producer was Gabriel Purcell-Davis. The technical producer was Mike Regaard. The assistant editor is Chris Gray. The senior news editor is Sam Bonham. Programme Website Show less More episodes Cymraeg Gaeilge Gàidhlig BBC Sounds Help Contacts, Privacy and Information Help with Signing In Newsletter Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds Bitesize CBeebies CBBC Food Home News Sport Business Technology Health Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Cookies Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Make an editorial complaint BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.