Georgia woman had unnecessary hysterectomy after lab mixup and cancer misdiagnosis, lawsuit says IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline U.S. news Georgia woman had unnecessary hysterectomy after lab mixup and cancer misdiagnosis, lawsuit says Cassandra Barksdale alleges that a tissue sample was mishandled by Kaiser Permanente after she sought help with abnormal bleeding, leading to the removal of her uterus and ovaries. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 4, 2026, 4:36 PM EDT / Updated Aug. 4, 2026, 5:51 PM EDT By Doha Madani An Atlanta-area woman alleges that negligent handling of a tissue sample led to her being misdiagnosed with an aggressive form of uterine cancer and undergoing a full hysterectomy when she was 43. Cassandra Barksdale was forced into premature menopause after doctors removed her cervix, uterus, fallopian tubes and ovaries last year, according to a lawsuit filed in Clayton County, Georgia. The lawsuit names Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of Georgia, Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, and Kaiser Permanente Insurance Company as defendants in addition to lab technicians believed to have handled Barksdale’s sample. She went to her doctor at a Kaiser Permanente center in January 2025 with concerns about abnormal uterine bleeding and uterine fibroids, according to the lawsuit. The lawsuit said she was referred out for a consultation and had an endometrial tissue biopsy in March 2025. That tissue was submitted to an outside lab, Quest Diagnostics, for pathology. Barksdale was told on March 17, 2025, that she had high-grade, aggressive endometrial uterine cancer, the lawsuit said. She underwent a CT scan, which the suit alleges showed no signs of cancer, and was referred to a doctor at Northside Hospital Atlanta, the suit said. Barksdale’s new doctor recommended a total hysterectomy, the removal of her ovaries, and lymph node biopsies based on her previous imaging records and pathology reports, according to the lawsuit. But testing on Barksdale’s tissue after her surgery showed no signs of cancer or malignancy “in the entire endometrial cavity,” the suit said. Kaiser Permanente said in a statement Tuesday that it was committed to working with Barksdale to resolve the matter in “the most fair and accountable way we can.” “Ms. Barksdale should not have experienced this. We have highly trained staff and very thorough processes in place to prevent errors like this from taking place,” the company said. “After this occurred last year, we took immediate steps to ensure it could not happen again.” Barksdale told reporters on Tuesday that the ordeal had a profound effect on her family as they believed she only had up to five years to live. “My sons began getting into a deep depression,” she said. “It took a big hold over my family.” The lawsuit alleges that the tissue sample Barksdale gave in March 2025 was mishandled by employees at Kaiser Permanente before it was sent to Quest Diagnostics. Quest did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The company is not being sued by Barksdale or accused of wrongdoing in the misdiagnosis. Roderick Edmond, one of the attorneys representing Barksdale, said the litigation process would reveal more about the mishap and whether someone else was impacted. “We don’t know that somebody else’s tissue was mislabeled, but that’s a possibility,” Edmond said. “And if it was, you have to ask yourself, how long? What’s the status of this person who possibly went along thinking everything was okay for seven months?” Barksdale is seeking at least $10,000 in damages and a jury trial. Share Add NBC News to Google Doha Madani I am a senior breaking news reporter for NBC News Digital, covering a range of news-of-the-day topics. My job is to report in a timely manner on crime, mass shootings, war coverage, domestic and international affairs, pop culture and more. Jadyn Cohee and Maya Rosenberg contributed . About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC