Idaho police release chilling new video of In-N-Out mass shooting IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Politics U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Guns in America Idaho police release chilling new video of In-N-Out mass shooting The shooting in Twin Falls last weekend left three dead and seven wounded. Authorities said Friday they are still investigating a motive. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Add NBC News to Google Video shows fatal shooting at Idaho In-N-Out Burger 01:18 Get more news on Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 7, 2026, 2:16 PM EDT / Updated Aug. 7, 2026, 4:19 PM EDT By Matt Lavietes Police released Friday new surveillance video of the mass shooting at an In-N-Out in Twin Falls, Idaho, showing the clearest account yet of the horrific scene that unfolded last weekend. In a news conference, the Twin Falls Police Department showed a video of the shooting edited together with clips from multiple surveillance cameras and using detailed voice-over from law enforcement. The Saturday shooting at and around the newly opened fast-food restaurant left three people dead and seven others wounded. The 24-year-old gunman, Chad Williams , fatally shot himself. Police release video of In-N-Out shooting in Twin Falls, Idaho. City of Twin Falls Civic Clerk The video begins by showing Williams pulling up to the In-N-Out drive-thru in a white Honda Civic. When he stops at the payment window, he rolls down his window and shoots employee Ashley Garibay , with a handgun. Garibay, 23, later died of her injuries. Williams then pulls up slightly, parks and exits his car. He walks a few steps and fatally shoots Christopher Claunch as he’s sitting in his vehicle, according to the video. The video then shows a man, whom authorities have identified as former police officer Austin James, running toward Williams before getting shot. James survived the shooting, but is shown retreating back to his car while losing blood. Williams then returns to the payment window and observes other employees rendering aid to Garibay before firing into the window, the video shows. His handgun jams, prompting him to return to his vehicle and retrieve a rifle, according to the video. Inside the restaurant, an off-duty Idaho state police trooper assists evacuating patrons and employees while searching for the gunman, according to the video. Authorities said they were not releasing the off-duty trooper’s name at this time. The surveillance video shows about half a dozen uniformed In-N-Out employees crawling on the ground, and over each other, to escape. Williams is then seen firing at fleeing patrons in the parking lot before he quickly returns to the drive-thru window, where he exchanges gunfire with the off-duty trooper who’s still in the restaurant. The gunman briefly retreats, then returns to the window and fires inside the restaurant again, injuring a good Samaritan who was trying to help the trooper and render aid to Garibay. Add NBC News to Google New details on victims of In-N-Out shooting 01:26 A woman seen in the video fleeing from the restaurant encounters the gunman and quickly seeks shelter behind his car, where she finds the discarded handgun. She picks it up and then discards it when she realizes it’s jammed, according to the footage. The gunman then walks from the In-N-Out toward the street and fires at cars stopped at a red light, striking three victims, the video shows. A good Samaritan with a handgun then engages with Williams as he flees to a nearby Tesla charging station. The gunman then can be seen firing at Tesla vehicles parked at the charging station, shooting three people as they sat in their vehicles. One of the three who were shot, Dale Schultz, 66, died from his injuries, the video states. Williams then walks into the nearby Twin Falls Visitor’s Center where three people were hiding, according to the footage. He then leaves the visitor center store and encounters two employees of nearby businesses on a walking trail behind the visitor center. One of the employees engages with the gunman, talking with him and allowing others coming down the trail time to escape, according to the video. As they separate, Williams fires at the employee, the video shows. That employee survived and was hailed for his bravery by law enforcement at Friday’s news conference. Body camera video from police officers responding to the scene and running toward the gunman is then shown. “Hey! Show me your hands!” an officer shouts as he points his rifle toward the gunman, who had walked off the trail and was standing above a canyon. The voice-over then states that Williams fatally shot himself and fell into the canyon. On Friday, police said that they still have not identified a motive; they also said there is no reason to believe there was another shooter. “To our victims and their loved ones, this community grieves with you,” said Twin Falls Police Chief Matthew Hicks. “We will never forget what happened here. We will never forget those that were hurt.” The In-N-Out location opened on July 24, according to a news release from the California-based chain. Lynsi Snyder, the president of In-N-Out Burger, addressed the shooting and the death of Garibay. “She was taking care of our most important asset — our customers, and her life was taken by a disgusting human who doesn’t value the lives of others or his own,” Snyder said. “He shot both on our property and off and ended his life shortly after he took the precious lives of our associate and customers, innocent people who never saw it coming,” she added. Share Add NBC News to Google Matt Lavietes I’m a reporter on NBC News’ breaking news team, covering crime, extreme weather, pop culture and more. I recently covered Hurricane Milton, which devastated the Tampa, Florida, metropolitan area, and the student-led protests at Columbia University. About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC