Scottish islanders refused permission to stage annual guga hunt - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Scotland Scotland Politics Scotland Business Edinburgh, Fife & East Glasgow & West Highlands & Islands NE, Orkney & Shetland South Tayside & Central Scottish islanders refused permission to stage annual seabird chicks hunt Image caption, A team of hunters go to the small island of Sula Sgeir to kill young gannets By Steven McKenzie Highlands and Islands reporter Published 3 August 2026 Permission has been refused for a guga hunt which would have seen hundreds of young seabirds killed on an uninhabited Hebridean island. For centuries, gannet chicks have been hunted for their meat each summer on Sula Sgeir, a small rocky island 40 miles (64km) north of Ness on Lewis. Modern hunts require a licence from public agency NatureScot, which rejected the application this year due to concerns about the impact on the gannet population. Animal welfare groups have welcomed the decision, but supporters accused campaigners of "bullying" a small island community. The decision to refuse a licence for Scotland's last remaining guga hunt this year was taken by NatureScot's board following a recommendation by officials. Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Gannet chicks on Bass Rock were once hunted and sold in a market in Edinburgh Hunting seabirds on Sula Sgeir goes back to the time of the Vikings, according to historian Donald S Murray, author of the book The Guga Hunters. Murray told BBC Radio Scotland Breakfast that historically birds were a vital source of food for people living in Ness, Lewis, on the North Atlantic coast. He said the area had "geographical difficulties". Rough seas made fishing hazardous and there were challenges around the quantity and quality of the land, which was mostly moorland. "It was a case of survival," said Murray. A group of 10 islanders, known as the Men of Ness, would spend about 10 days in August harvesting chicks, which are known as guga. In the past, other parts of Scotland - including Orkney and Shetland - also had seabird hunts. On St Kilda, before the archipelago was abandoned in 1930 , birds were killed for their meat and also oils for fuel and waterproofing, while the feathers were used for clothing and bedding. Eggs were also collected as food. Gannet chicks taken from Bass Rock in the Firth of Forth were sold in a market in Edinburgh. The meat has been described as tasting like a cross between kipper and steak or "salty goose" and, less flatteringly, as "rotten leather and fishy beef" , external . Other descriptions have included it being like a mix of anchovy paste and high-strength cod liver oil. What are the arguments for and against the hunt? Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Campaigners outside the Scottish parliament during a protest in January Opponents say the hunt is no longer needed to feed islanders and describe the method used to kill the chicks as cruel. Harvesting methods have remained largely traditional, according to a report by the Scottish Seabird Centre , external . Hunters use long poles fitted with a noose to catch chicks in their nests before being killed, usually by a blow to the head. The birds are gutted, plucked and salted on Sula Sgeir before being taken by boat to Lewis where they are counted by a NatureScot official. Harvests did not take place in 2022, 2023 and 2024 due to concerns around bird flu . A total of 485 birds were taken at the 2025 hunt. Hunters had sought a licence to take either 2,000 or 500 birds this year. Sula Sgeir and nearby North Rona are covered by special area protection (SPA) designation , external due to their seabirds, which also include fulmars. Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Opponents say the hunt involves a "brutal death" for chicks Devon Docherty, Scottish campaigns manager at Protect the Wild, said refusing a licence was a "victory for compassion, for science and for common sense". She added: "Thousands of young seabirds have been spared from a brutal death because NatureScot chose to follow the evidence rather than simply rubber-stamp another licence to kill." Scottish animal campaigns charity, OneKind, also welcomed the decision. Chief executive Jason Rose said: "We are very relieved that the lives thousands of young gannets will be spared this year, and many more birds won't bear the emotional toll of disruption to their lives, families and communities." The Scottish Seabird Centre, said it was the "right decision" for Scotland's seabirds. Emily Burton, conservation manager, said: "Gannet populations have suffered significant declines, and many colonies are still recovering from the impacts of avian influenza." More than 106,000 people signed a petition , external calling for the Scottish government to prohibit the hunt. The cultural significance of the hunt is recognised under the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981, and modern hunts require a licence from NatureScot. Image source, Peter Jolly/Northpix Image caption, NatureScot's premises in Inverness were vandalised earlier this year Agnes Rennie, is chair of Urras Oighreachd Ghabhsainn, the local community land group for the north of Lewis. She said: "The guga hunt is a centuries-old tradition which reinforces our unique communal identity and helps families keep ancient Gaelic customs alive and relevant in the modern world." Historian Donald S Murray said food security was not guaranteed, and argued that the hunt was not unique. He said that in New Zealand sooty shearwater, also known as muttonbirds, were traditionally hunted on Rakiura, which is also known as Stewart Island. Murray described the campaign against the guga hunt as "monstrous". Anti-guga hunt graffiti was sprayed on walls at NatureScot's headquarters in Inverness in February, and was followed by a rooftop protest in March . Murdo MacRitchie, of the Save Our Guga Harvest group, said there was "deep disappointment" in Ness following the decision. He added: "However, that decision has to be respected and we will continue to work with NatureScot to help us fully understand the scientific grounds on which it was based. "It should be noted that NatureScot addressed the issue of welfare and, having taken advice from Scotland's chief veterinary officer, again confirmed the method of dispatch is humane." Torcuil Crichton, Labour MP for Na h-Eileanan an Iar, has submitted a Freedom of Information (FOI) request to find out how NatureScot came to its conclusion. "Last year, when the Men of Ness took 500 guga from Sula Sgeir the science backed them up and the recommendation was for the hunt to go ahead," he said. "The numbers haven't changed, the situation hasn't changed but the way of measuring the numbers has changed." He said objectors had won a "hollow victory" stopping this year's hunt. How did NatureScot come to its decision? NatureScot said it assessed the application against legislation and used the most recent scientific evidence. A spokesperson said: "We have used the latest information available and commissioned an updated population model to help predict the effect of the guga hunt on the gannet population. "As a result, we have concluded an adverse impact is possible, both at the applicants' requested application limit of 2,000 juvenile gannets, and at a reduced limit of 500." Board members agreed to refuse permission for the hunt this year. The spokesperson added: "This decision does not prevent the Men of Ness applying for, and obtaining, a licence in future years. "The hunt is recognised in law under the Wildlife and Countryside Act and NatureScot has a duty to consider any licence application based upon the best available science." Related topics Wildlife Gannets Isle of Lewis More on this story Scotland's centuries-old guga hunt could be refused licence Published 29 July Permission sought for traditional guga hunt to take place this year Published 2 July From other local news sites Winners of the Highland Business Women Awards 2026 revealed External Strathspey & Badenoch Herald GRAHAM LEADBITTER: New Prime Minister has to take lead on carrying fight to deadly threat External Strathspey & Badenoch Herald Investment needed for “jewel in the tourism crown” External Stornoway Gazette Scotland's Makar to visit Bettyhill Library External Northern Times Biker in fatal Lewis crash named as Mull man External West Coast Today New destination added to Inverness Airport with announcement of Frankfurt flights External Northern Times Information about BBC links to other news sites The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:34 Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents. 00:00:34, play video Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents 1:05 What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident. 00:01:05, play video What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident 0:29 How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 00:00:29, play video How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 1:27 Are older and younger generations in conflict? 00:01:27, play video Are older and younger generations in conflict? 1:18 Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 00:01:18, play video Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 0:48 Model's photos used to catfish women. 00:00:48, play video Model's photos used to catfish women 1:29 The inventor who refused to take no for an answer. 00:01:29, play video The inventor who refused to take no for an answer 1:07 How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 00:01:07, play video How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 1:01 E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths. 00:01:01, play video E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths 1:07 NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England. 00:01:07, play video NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England 0:52 Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion. 00:00:52, play video Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion 0:59 Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation. 00:00:59, play video Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation 0:35 Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend. 00:00:35, play video Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend 1:25 Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings. 00:01:25, play video Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings 0:55 Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 00:00:55, play video Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 0:48 Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances. 00:00:48, play video Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances 1:16 GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview. 00:01:16, play video GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview 1:07 What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 00:01:07, play video What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 0:58 '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 00:00:58, play video '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 0:29 Where does salmonella get its name? 00:00:29, play video Where does salmonella get its name? Top stories Live . Rescue efforts enter fifth day on Nepal-Tibet border with more than 2,400 missing after flash flood 1173 viewing 1.2k viewing At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot Published 3 hours ago Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor Published 7 hours ago More to explore Dolly Parton's dad couldn't read - it inspired her to send books to millions of children Sweetcorn ice creams and pastries: The latest 'swavoury' trend taking over your feed How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works We helped create UK emergency alert system - but question how government is using it Hypermobility - the little-known 'bendy disease' that causes pain and fatigue Strong winds and thunderstorms kick off the bank holiday weekend 'I thought diet clubs weren't for men' Embroidery on display as town celebrates conqueror Royal Watch: Get the latest royal stories and analysis with Sean Coughlan’s weekly newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Low-key noughties sitcom starring Robert Webb and Paula Wilcox Keith Richards recalls how he wrote the iconic 'Satisfaction' An unlikely gang set out to catch a killer who shattered rural peace Did Emily ruin Paris? Most read 1 Rescue to continue overnight for 'in distress' vessel carrying five in the Channel 2 Sarah Ferguson expected back in the UK 'shortly', source says 3 Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor 4 I've been to Gamescom six times - here's what excited me this year 5 'Healey eyes banks and oil tax' and 'X Factor comeback' 6 Norway's new king remembers 'my dear father' in first speech 7 How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works 8 They fell in love - then had to check they weren't brother and sister 9 Man dies after train hits van on crossing 10 At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.