Guatemala volcano eruption prompts evacuation of hundreds of people | Guatemala | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development 0:42 Families in Guatemala evacuated as volcano erupts – video Guatemala Guatemala volcano eruption prompts evacuation of hundreds of people Eruption of the Fuego volcano sends lava and ash nearly four miles into the sky as country declares second-highest alert Agence France-Presse in San Juan Alotenango Tue 4 Aug 2026 13.31 EDT Last modified on Wed 5 Aug 2026 00.06 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Hundreds of people living on the slopes of Guatemala ’s Fuego volcano have evacuated their homes after a huge eruption spewed lava and plumes of ash. Central America’s most active volcano erupted on Monday morning, with conditions intensifying by nightfall and prompting authorities to issue the country’s second-most severe alert warning. By Tuesday, rivers of lava were streaming down the 3,763-metre (12,346-foot) volcano, which is located less than 100 kilometres (62 miles) from Guatemala City. Ash rose six kilometres (3.73 miles) into the red sky. “Since early morning it was active. That night, the alarm was raised that we needed to evacuate,” a local resident, Alejandro Garcia, 68, told AFP. Villagers left of their own accord out of fear, Garcia said, describing terrifying scenes of lava tumbling down the mountainside. Firefighters said they transported at least 350 residents of the El Porvenir and Las Lajitas villages to the eastward San Juan Alotenango municipality. Evacuees are staying in a community hall, where makeshift beds have been set up, while the number of people taken to other nearby towns remains unknown. “If there were any chance of moving to a different house, it would be better, because you’re always afraid since the volcano doesn’t give any warning,” Lidia Ortiz, 40, said at the shelter. Escuintla, to the south, was sheltering dozens more families, including children, local authorities reported. “If an evacuation is ordered or conditions pose a risk to your life, follow the principle of self-evacuation,” Conred spokesperson Valeria Urizar said in a video posted on social media. The country’s Institute of Volcanology warned of hot volcanic debris flows down Fuego’s slopes, with communities on the western and southern flanks at the greatest risk. Fuego had been erupting for 23 hours straight by Tuesday morning, it said, although the intensity was easing. “We’ve already gotten used to having the volcano constantly active, but this time it was really too much,” 50-year-old resident Sonia Vasquez said. Guatemalan authorities urged “precautions with air traffic”, but there has so far been no impact on the capital’s international airport. The education ministry ordered the suspension of face-to-face classes in communities within two municipalities near the volcano. Guatemala volcano: rescuers battle boiling ash to recover Fuego’s dead Read more Traffic police also closed a road encircling the mountain range that connects the south coast with the colonial city of Antigua, the country’s main tourist destination and a Unesco World Heritage site. Guatemala lies on the Pacific ‘ring of fire’ and experiences frequent seismic and volcanic activity. There have been several such mass evacuations in recent years because Fuego erupted. Authorities evacuated more than 500 people last year after Fuego spurted gas and ash, with residents moved to shelters from communities near the crater. Another eruption in 2023 pushed around 1,200 people to evacuate. In 2018, 215 people were killed and a similar number left missing when rivers of lava poured down Fuego’s slopes and destroyed a village. Explore more on these topics Guatemala Volcanoes Americas news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)