The Best Garmin Watches, Tested and Reviewed | NBC Select IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Top stories Owala’s back-to-school sale is here The best keratosis pilaris treatments for smoother skin Packing your skin care and makeup is so much easier with this toiletry bag How often should you change and wash your towels REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gearpost, REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gear Walmart has up to 65% off back-to-school must-haves 35+ college-exclusive back-to-school deals Skip to Content About Us Wellness All Wellness Skin Care Hair Care Oral Care Health Fitness Sleep Home All Home Small appliances Bedding & bath Cleaning Vacuums Office Gardening Kitchen All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech All Tech Electronics Personal Tech TVs Audio Computers Cameras Pets All Pets Dogs Cats Pet Care Lifestyle All Lifestyle Sports Travel Parenting Apparel Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping Subscribe Share About Us Wellness Main Menu All Wellness Skin Care Wellness All Skin Care Hair Care Wellness All Hair Care Oral Care Wellness All Oral Care Health Wellness All Health Fitness Wellness All Fitness Sleep Wellness All Sleep Home Main Menu All Home Small appliances Home All Small appliances Bedding & bath Home All Bedding & bath Cleaning Home All Cleaning Vacuums Home All Vacuums Office Home All Office Gardening Kitchen Main Menu All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech Main Menu All Tech Electronics Tech All Electronics Personal Tech Tech All Personal Tech TVs Tech All TVs Audio Tech All Audio Computers Cameras Pets Main Menu All Pets Dogs Pets All Dogs Cats Pets All Cats Pet Care Pets All Pet Care Lifestyle Main Menu All Lifestyle Sports Travel Lifestyle All Travel Parenting Apparel Lifestyle All Apparel Footwear Lifestyle All Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales Main Menu All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories Main Menu All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides Main Menu All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping More from NBC Sign up for the Selected Newsletter Check out Shop TODAY NBC News TODAY About Help Careers Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information CA Notice Terms Of Service NBC News Sitemap Advertise Ad Choices Follow Selected © 2026 NBCNEWS.COM NBC Selected independently determines what we cover and recommend. When you click on or buy through our links, we earn a commission. Learn more . Personal Tech I tested Garmin’s most popular watches — here are the best for runners, health tracking and more Forerunner? Instinct? Venu? Which one is right for you? Updated Aug. 5, 2026, 10:41 AM EDT Harry Rabinowitz Tech Reporter Skip to table of contents Garmin makes a lot of different watches. I’ve tested nearly a dozen in an effort to better understand which is right for you. Courtesy Harry Rabinowitz In this article Our top picks The best Garmin watches in 2026 How I test Garmin watches How to shop for a Garmin watch Why trust NBC Selected? See 2 More Garmin makes a lot of different watches. While brands like Apple, Google and Samsung have two or three smartwatches to choose from, Garmin has dozens, which can make it hard to know which one is right for you. As NBC Selected’s fitness and tech reporter, I test out smartwatches, fitness trackers and smart rings regularly: that includes all of Garmin’s latest watches. Below are my top recommendations for anyone looking to make the switch or upgrade an older model. Selected. Our top picks Best overall Garmin Vivoactive 6 $undefined $299.99 Amazon Learn more Best for runners Garmin Forerunner 570 $undefined $549.99 Amazon Learn more Best for battery life Garmin Instinct 3 (Solar) $349.99 $399.99 Amazon Learn more Best premium Garmin Fenix 8 (43mm) (AMOLED) $undefined $1,099.99 Amazon Learn more See 1 More Related selected selected I’ve tested dozens of workout headphones: These are the best Want more from NBC Selected? Sign up for our newsletter, The Selection, and shop smarter. The best Garmin watches in 2026 Because Garmin makes so many different watches, it probably makes one that is just right for you. Below are my top recommendations. Every option on this list were samples I requested from the brand for testing purposes for this story. Best overall Garmin Vivoactive 6 3,184 Amazon Reviews $ 299.99 Amazon $ 299.99 Best Buy $ 299.99 Garmin What to know Display: 42mm | Thickness: 10.9mm | Weight (no straps): 23g | Battery life: up to 11 days | Battery life (GPS): up to 21 hours | Built-in GPS: yes | Water resistance: yes, up to 50 meters | ECG: no | Compatible with: iPhone and Android What we like Excellent battery life Robust fitness tracking Exercise animations Something to note App learning curve The Garmin Vivoactive 6 has a subtle and understated look, but still contains many of the brand's best features. Courtesy Harry Rabinowitz The Garmin Vivoactive 6 hits just the right balance of features and price that makes it the easiest option to recommend, especially for someone trying out the brand for the first time. It’s a generalist smartwatch: it has many of the brand’s best features without specializing too heavily in one activity (like the Forerunner series). It has in-depth metrics for health, sleep and fitness activity, with staple Garmin features like body battery , workout recovery times, Garmin pace pro and Garmin coach (with running and strength training plans). I love its workout animations — the watch will play short videos of a silhouette performing certain exercises during HIIT, cardio, strength, yoga or move alert activity. Animated move alerts, in particular, make taking breaks at my desk a lot more fun. The upgrade: Garmin Venu 4 The budget alternative: Garmin Forerunner 165 Best for runners Garmin Forerunner 570 463 Amazon Reviews $ 549.99 Amazon $ 550.00 REI $ 549.99 Garmin What to know Display: 42mm or 47mm | Thickness: 12.9mm | Weight (no straps): 42g or 50g (size dependent) | Battery life: up to 10 or 11 days (size dependent) | Battery life (GPS): up to 18 hours | Built-in GPS: yes (dual-band) | Water resistance: yes, up to 50 meters | ECG: no | Compatible with: iPhone or Android What we like Excellent battery life Accurate GPS Ample tracking metrics Something to note Pricey App learning curve I tested the 42-millimeter Garmin Forerunner 570, which fit my wrist much better than the 47-millimeter version. Anyone who loves to run should look at the Garmin Forerunner series — the watches are made with runners in mind. If you’re already deep into your running journey, the Forerunner 570 is my go-to recommendation: It has more than enough tools for runners and racers and comes in two sizes, so you can get the best fit for your wrist (unlike the Forerunner 70 and Forerunner 970 ). The most important features in my expert opinion are training readiness , training status and HRV (heart rate variability) status , which work in tandem to help optimize your training and recovery. Training Readiness combines multiple metrics to give you a top-level score about how beneficial your training will be. In practice, it helps me decide whether today is a rest day, an easy day or a day to push myself. It has advanced running metrics like power, cadence, stride length and ground contact time, as well as multi-band GPS for the most accurate, consistent distance and time stats possible. It also connects to GPS usually within five seconds. The upgrade: Garmin Forerunner 970 The budget alternative: Garmin Forerunner 70 Best for battery life Garmin Instinct 3 (Solar) 645 Amazon Reviews $ 349.99 $ 399.99 Amazon Now 13% off $ 349.99 Best Buy $ 349.99 Garmin What to know Display: 45mm or 50mm | Battery life: up to 40 days (potentially unlimited with solar) | Built-in GPS: yes (multi-band) | Sleep tracking: yes (including naps) | Heart-rate monitor: yes, no ECG | Water resistance: yes, up to 100 meters | Compatible with: iPhone or Android What we like Outstanding battery life Rugged design Built-in flashlight Something to note Love it or hate it screen 45mm is smallest size The MIP display is easy to read during the day, especially in direct sunlight Courtesy Harry Rabinowitz If you don’t even want to think about charging your Garmin, look for a solar-powered model like this Garmin Instinct 3 solar. It’s a rugged, outdoor-focused fitness watch with many of Garmin’s notable fitness and health features, but with potentially unlimited battery life. That’s because the Instinct 3 has a solar panel built into the screen — get enough sunlight and the watch largely charges itself. Part of this long battery life stems from the screen: it’s a monochrome memory-in-pixel (MIP) display, common on outdoor watches, but not common on many smartwatches. It is easy to see in light conditions, but nearly impossible to see in the dark — press the “Light” button, and the screen will light up for a few seconds. If an MIP screen sounds like a dealbreaker, you can also get the Instinct 3 AMOLED , which has a more typical bright, colorful smartwatch screen and still gets up to 24 days of battery life. The Garmin Enduro 3 and Garmin Fenix 8 (Solar) both get even better battery life than the Instinct 3 (and have solar MIP displays with color), but both cost over twice as much. The upgrade: Garmin Enduro 3 The budget alternative: n/a Best premium Garmin Fenix 8 (43mm) (AMOLED) 1,396 Amazon Reviews $ 1,099.99 Amazon $ 1,100.00 REI $ 1,099.99 Garmin What to know Display: 43mm | Thickness: 13.8mm | Weight (no straps): 44g (titanium version) | Battery life: up to 10 days | Built-in GPS: yes (multi-band) | Sleep tracking: yes (including naps) | Heart-rate monitor: yes, with ECG | Water resistance: yes, up to 100 meters, diving up to 40 meters | Compatible with: iPhone or Android What we like Excellent mapping and GPS Durable design Great battery life Something to note Pricey Heavy The Garmin Fenix 8 has a durable titanium case and a sapphire crystal screen I didn’t worry about scratching. Courtesy Harry Rabinowitz Garmin’s premium, do-it-all watch is the Fenix 8. It has a bevy of features only found in the brand’s high-end watches: things like a dive rating (up to 40 meters), offline maps, navigation and music, a built-in speaker and microphone for calls and music, a built-in flashlight and the list goes on. It’s also likely the most durable — it has a titanium case and sapphire crystal screen, two of the most durable materials you can put in a watch. Outside of premium hardware (and software), I’d recommend the Fenix 8 if you are interested in diving, hiking and trail running: features like dive modes, ascent planning and stellar battery life make it well-suited to these activities. All of that comes at a price: literally. The 47 millimeters AMOLED version that I tested (and linked above) costs $1,099. It’s also surprisingly heavy at 73 grams, heavier than every other watch on this list. The upgrade: Garmin Fenix 8 Pro (AMOLED) The budget alternative: Garmin Epix Pro (Gen 2) , Garmin Forerunner 970 Best for style Garmin Venu 4 1,505 Amazon Reviews $ 539.99 Amazon $ 550.00 REI $ 549.99 Target What to know Display: 41mm or 45mm | Battery life: up to 12 days | Built-in GPS: yes | Sleep tracking: yes (including naps) | Heart-rate monitor: yes, with ECG | Water resistance: yes, up to 50 meters | Compatible with: iPhone and Android What we like Small and lightweight Sleek design Built-in flashlight Something to note Pricey The Garmin Venu 4 is one of the brand’s sleekest looking smartwatches. Most of the Garmin watches I’ve mentioned so far look very fitness-forward. The Garmin Venu series is subtle and classy by comparison, and is a great option for anyone who wants Garmin’s best features but in a package that’s easier to match to any occasion. It has a stainless steel bezel that looks great, and comes in two sizes, including a petite 41-millimeter option. It also has built-in microphones, speakers and a flashlight, one I use all the time in dark spaces. The Venu 4 also has many of Garmin’s premium training and health features, including health status , lifestyle logging , Garmin fitness coach , training readiness , training status and HRV (heart rate variability) status . It’s a little pricey, but a great all-around option for most people not needing the five-buttons control, fitness look of the Garmin Forerunner series. The upgrade: n/a The budget alternative: Garmin Vivoactive 6 Best for Apple Watch converts Garmin Venu X1 183 Amazon Reviews $ 699.99 $ 799.99 Amazon Now 13% off $ 699.99 Best Buy $ 699.99 Garmin What to know Display: 46mm | Battery life: up to 8 days | Built-in GPS: yes | Sleep tracking: yes (including naps) | Heart-rate monitor: yes, no ECG | Water resistance: yes, up to 50 meters | Compatible with: iPhone or Android What we like Long battery life Accurate GPS Ample tracking metrics Something to note Lesser battery life Pricey If you love everything about your Apple Watch but are considering trying out Garmin, I recommend the Venu X1. It’s Garmin’s most Apple-like watch, with a huge, bright square screen and a very thin case size (eight millimeters). But it has most of the same features as other pricey Garmins, meaning runners, racers, hikers and bikers won’t feel like they are “missing out” getting this model instead of a Forerunner or Fenix. The Venu X1 does have less battery life than most other Garmin watches — up to eight days in gesture mode and only two in always-on mode. The upgrade: n/a The budget alternative: n/a How I test Garmin watches I typically wear two watches at the same time (one on each wrist) and compare data between the two. (I don’t typically wear four, as pictured above.) Courtesy Harry Rabinowitz I am a runner and cyclist, and use smartwatches and fitness trackers to track and monitor live stats like heart rate, pace and time as well as recovery metrics over time. I tend to spend hours tinkering with device settings, exploring what a product offers out of the box, and what I can fine-tune to match my preferences. I test Garmin watches for at least a week, using as many features as possible, usually comparing them (and the data) to another watch (on my other wrist) or smart ring. I’ve tested nearly a dozen Garmin watches over the years. I request Garmin watches from the brand — it sends me devices to test out as needed. I send each one back to the brand once I am done testing. How to shop for a Garmin watch Even after you pick out which type of Garmin watch you want, there are still a few key factors you should keep in mind. Size Many Garmin watches come in multiple size options: the Garmin Fenix 8 , for example, comes in 43, 47 and 51 millimeter options. I have smaller wrists (about six inches in circumference), and have tested many smartwatches, so I know that I prefer my smartwatch to be between 42 and 45 millimeters. I err on the larger end if the watch can only be controlled via the touchscreen, and not buttons along the sides. What size is right for you depends on your wrist circumference, but also personal preference. My advice: visit a store like REI or Fleet Feet in person; most have multiple Garmin watches you can try on, in my experience. Key sport If you love one activity in particular: think running, diving or hiking, you should probably stick to a Garmin watch built around that activity. For divers: it’s the Garmin Descent or Garmin Fenix 8 . For runners: it’s any of the Garmin Forerunner watches. For hikers and trail runners, there are a few options across the Forerunner, Instinct and Fenix lineup, depending on your exact needs. If you are more of a fitness generalist, the Garmin Vivoactive and Garmin Venu are the best options. Screen type Most newer Garmin watches come with a bright, colorful AMOLED display, the kind of screen you see in the Apple Watch, Samsung Galaxy Watch, Google Pixel Watch and most Fitbits. But some Garmin watches, particularly those focused on battery life, solar charging and the outdoors, have a memory-in-pixel (MIP) display. A MIP display is always on but barely uses any energy to power, so it typically allows for a watch with far greater battery life than one with an AMOLED display. MIP displays are easy to read in sunny conditions but become hard or nearly impossible to see at night or in darkness (unless you hit the “light” button to briefly activate the watch backlight). I recommend an AMOLED display for most people — if you want an MIP display, you probably already knew it before reading this article. Why trust NBC Selected? Harry Rabinowitz is a former reporter at NBC Selected who covers technology and fitness including stories on fitness trackers, wireless earbuds and cameras . He tests new and popular Garmin watches regularly, using them to track stats for my health, sleep and exercise, and leveraged his experience using fitness trackers, smartwatches and smart rings to pick the best Garmin watches. Catch up on NBC Selected’s in-depth coverage of tech and tools , wellness and more, and follow us on Facebook , Instagram , Twitter and TikTok to stay up to date. Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off Harry Rabinowitz Harry Rabinowitz is a reporter for NBC Selected, where he is constantly trying and reviewing the latest and greatest tech gadgets. I tested Garmin’s most popular watches — here are the best for runners, health tracking and more The 81+ best new products this month from Hoka, Béis, Sony, Olaplex and more I tested the Oura Ring 5 for over a month — here’s what I think about its $400 price Latest articles Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off In this article Our top picks The best Garmin watches in 2026 How I test Garmin watches How to shop for a Garmin watch Why trust NBC Selected? ABOUT CONTACT HELP CAREERS PRIVACY POLICY DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION CA NOTICE TERMS OF SERVICE NBC NEWS SITEMAP AD CHOICES ADVERTISE DEALS & SALES SKIN CARE HEALTH TECH NBCNews.com © 2026 SELECTED | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.