Popular social media influencer shot dead during livestream outside restaurant in Mexico - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Cyberattacks World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War Cyberattacks World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Crime Popular social media influencer shot dead during livestream outside restaurant in Mexico Updated on: August 5, 2026 / 3:19 PM EDT / CBS/AFP Add CBS News on Google A Mexican influencer was shot dead on Tuesday while streaming live on social media outside a restaurant in Sinaloa state, where cartel and gang violence is rife. Cesar Gastelum, who had more than 600,000 followers on TikTok, was broadcasting with two friends — all dressed as food delivery workers as part of a challenge. Video circulating online showed a motorcycle carrying two people pull up beside them. In the recording of the livestream, seen by the Reuters news agency , the driver of the motorcycle appeared to fire a gun directly at Gastelum. Local police confirmed Gastelum's death. The livestream was halted and later removed by the platform, though footage and images of the attack have continued to circulate. Local police initially reported the death of a delivery worker, but later identified the victim as Gastelum, who was reportedly 25 years old and posted lifestyle content. The attack took place in a busy shopping plaza near the Sinaloa prosecutor's office in Culiacan , the state capital. Mexican social media influencer Cesar Gastelum, who, according to the local authorities, was shot and killed while livestreaming with friends outside a fast food restaurant in the northwestern city of Culiacan, poses while taking a selfie at an unknown location, in this picture from social media released on July 26, 2025. Instagram/cesarselectivo/via REUTERS The drive-by shooting death have been in retaliation for social media posts about a criminal group, authorities said Wednesday. "The lines of investigation include numerous publications, some of which refer to a criminal group," Mexico's Security Cabinet posted on X, referring to online posts, without providing further details. Soldiers and police were deployed while forensic experts collected evidence and removed the body, according to footage from local TV stations. A soldier stands guard as forensic technicians and police officers work at the crime scene where Mexican social media influencer Cesar Gastelum was shot and killed while livestreaming with friends in Culiacan, Sinaloa state, August 4, 2026. Jesus Bustamante / REUTERS The district has been troubled over the past two years by internal struggles within the powerful local cartel. Around a dozen influencers — some allegedly linked to criminal gangs — have been killed in recent years in Sinaloa, local media said. Last year, Mexican social media influencer Valeria Marquez was shot dead at a beauty salon during a livestream on TikTok, where she had tens of thousands of followers. Prosecutors said she appeared to be murdered by a hit man and expressed fear before being killed. In July, authorities announced the arrest in Jalisco of Ramon Angel Alvarez Ayala, whom officials linked to the killing of Marquez as well as the November 2025 murder of Uruapan Mayor Carlos Manzo , Reuters reported. Marquez's murder shocked Mexico — where killings and kidnappings are a daily occurrence — and brought into sharp focus both its femicide epidemic and growing violence against influencers. In January 2025, a small plane was reported to have dropped pamphlets in Culiacan threatening around 20 artists and YouTubers for alleged dealings with a warring faction of the Sinaloa drug cartel. Influencers have been targeted in other parts of Latin America. Last year in Venezuela, police arrested an alleged accomplice in the murder of a TikTok influencer who was killed during a livestream after denouncing members of the Tren de Aragua criminal gang and allegedly corrupt police officers. The Associated Press contributed to this report. More from CBS News Russian drone factory director seriously injured in car explosion Video shows drone attacking a street vendor in Ukraine Qdoba removes jalapeños as salmonella outbreak spreads to 27 states House Ethics probing Rep. Max Miller for alleged domestic violence, drug use Go deeper with The Free Press This Week in Canada: Why a Social Media Ban Isn’t the Answer Tyler Cowen: Is Mexico Safe Enough for the World Cup? In: Drug Cartels Mexico Social Media © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Agence France-Presse contributed to this report. U.S.-Mexico border changes since Trump How the U.S.-Mexico border changed since Trump took over 05:35 How the U.S.-Mexico border changed since Trump took over (05:35) Russian drone factory director seriously injured in car explosion Video shows drone attacking a street vendor in Ukraine Qdoba removes jalapeños as salmonella outbreak spreads to 27 states This Week in Canada: Why a Social Media Ban Isn’t the Answer Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue