Family funeral held after suspected Great Denham triple murder - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions Beds, Herts & Bucks Family funeral held after suspected triple murder Image source, Bedfordshire Police Image caption, The bodies of Nothabo Zandile Tshuma and her daughters Nala, five, and Natalie, 15, were found in their home on 6 July By Pumza Fihlani , in Johannesburg and Danny Fullbrook , Bedfordshire, Hertfordshire and Buckinghamshire Published 4 August 2026, 13:02 BST A funeral service has been held for a woman and her two daughters who are believed to have been murdered. Nothabo Zandile Tshuma, 42, and her daughters Natalie, 15, and Nala, five, were found dead in Great Denham, near Bedford, on 6 July. At the funeral service in a church in Bulawayo, Zimbabwe, mourners spoke of the mother's kindness, her love for her family and determination to succeed. Inside the packed hall, dozens sang mournful songs as the three white coffins stood in the centre of the room, each placed beside a smiling photograph. An inquest into the deaths found the mother and her two children had died from head injuries. Ndodana Mkhanyisi Tshuma, 45, was arrested in Johannesburg on suspicion of murdering his wife and two children; he remains in custody in South Africa. He is also facing a separate gun-related charge. At the same time, UK authorities are working to have him extradited to stand trial for the murder allegations. Image source, Sam Read/BBC Image caption, A remembrance service was held for the family last month in Bedford, near Great Denham Speaking to the BBC, family spokesperson and relative Leon Khumalo described Nothabo, who had built a life in the UK over many years, as "the family's pride and joy." He said: "She was the glue of our family and was dearly loved by many". Khumalo said his family was grappling with the loss, which had taken "two generations from them" in one gruesome incident. At the funeral service, the speakers spoke fondly of her kindness, her love for her family and determination to succeed. One said: "When she moved to the UK from Zimbabwe, we were all incredibly proud. It filled us with so much joy as a family to see her build a great career and respected career." Another relative described Natalie as "an intelligent young girl who showed great promise. She was gentle and loved sport". Speaking about Nala, he added: "She was full of infectious joy and laughter." The family have said they want justice for the deaths, and the truth to be revealed through the court process. Tshuma's case resumes on 27 August; he is yet to plead. Do you have a story suggestion for Beds, Herts or Bucks? Contact us below. Get in touch Your Voice Contact form Contact form Follow Beds, Herts and Bucks news on BBC Sounds , Facebook , external , Instagram , external and X , external . Related topics Zimbabwe Johannesburg More on this story Remembrance service held for mum and two daughters Published 4 days ago Family died from head wounds after alleged murder Published 7 days ago From other local news sites More than 15,000 incidents of fly-tipping recorded across Hertfordshire in one year, but fewer than 200 fixed penalty notices issued External Hemel Hempstead Gazette Man wanted on suspicion of assault with links to Dacorum reported as missing External Hemel Hempstead Gazette Vantrue Pilot 2 review: The dashcam bringing thermal imaging to everyday drivers External Milton Keynes Citizen WATCH: Men jailed after £30,000 worth of drugs seized in huge operation External Bucks Free Press Fancy running your own Bedford guest house? One in De Parys Avenue is up for sale External Bedford Today Popular outdoor cinema event in St Albans park axed External Herts Advertiser Information about BBC links to other news sites The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:01 Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack. 00:01:01, play video Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack 0:57 Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites. 00:00:57, play video Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport 1:01 What are the 'luteal uglies'? 00:01:01, play video What are the 'luteal uglies'? 0:59 Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 00:00:59, play video Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 0:40 US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak. 00:00:40, play video US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak 0:35 PC Harper's mother on early release for killers. 00:00:35, play video PC Harper's mother on early release for killers 0:41 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti. 00:00:41, play video 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti 0:54 Why Scotland's exam results come first. 00:00:54, play video Why Scotland's exam results come first 1:06 Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 00:01:06, play video Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 0:39 Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests. 00:00:39, play video Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests 1:09 Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos. 00:01:09, play video Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos 0:25 Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas. 00:00:25, play video Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas 0:45 Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer. 00:00:45, play video Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer 0:55 Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight. 00:00:55, play video Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight 0:27 Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend. 00:00:27, play video Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend 0:59 How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president. 00:00:59, play video How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president 1:57 Are some schools taking discipline too far? 00:01:57, play video Are some schools taking discipline too far? Top stories Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack Published 4 hours ago More than 170 migrants rescued after boat catches fire in Channel Published 2 hours ago Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece Published 2 hours ago More to explore Which area has the best grades? Key takeaways from Scotland's exam results How to avoid the worst of the Italian heat I left my wife and twins behind - why this Nigerian man fled South Africa Breast cancer checks missing most women under 50 who are at risk, says study There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger After three traumatic years at uni, I fear I won't get my dream nursing job Woman has pioneering womb surgery to fix 'miracle' baby with intestines outside its body Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC 'I said maybeeee...' Follow police investigations from the 999 call to conviction The return of the thrilling, award-winning drama about the CIA Tommy and John Fury debate what makes a home Most read 1 Athletes go 'missing' after Commonwealth Games ends 2 Princess Eugenie gives birth to baby girl in Portugal 3 Major search under way for boy, 13, missing at sea 4 Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack 5 Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece 6 Bono, Eddie Vedder and Hozier among mourners at Glen Hansard's funeral 7 Man 'driven insane' by noise admits killing fish 8 Care company fined for running illegal children's homes in legal first 9 Oil prices fall on hopes Strait of Hormuz could reopen 10 Ed Sheeran fined for failing to insure Aston Martin BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.