The Women's Professional Baseball League makes its historic debut : The Picture Show : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics The Women's Professional Baseball League makes its historic debut : The Picture Show The Los Angeles Queens, the New York Heights, the Boston Hunters and the San Francisco Firebells take the field in Springfield, Ill., as the Women's Pro Baseball League kicks off its inaugural season. The Picture Show Photo Stories From NPR Instagram The Picture Show The Women's Professional Baseball League makes its historic debut August 8, 2026 6:30 AM ET By Jaclyn Licht Brittany Apgar (from left), Maggie Foxx and Mo'ne Davis, of the Los Angeles Queens, joke around in the dugout prior to the start of the Women's Pro Baseball League's inaugural game in Springfield, Ill., on Saturday, Aug. 1. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR SPRINGFIELD, Ill. — Three hours before game time, hundreds of fans swarmed the construction-lined, rain-soaked parking lot of Springfield's Robin Roberts Stadium. Some lived down the road; most hailed from across the country, and some had come from as far as away as South Korea and Australia. Carol and Mike Studer, the grandparents of the New York Heights' first baseman London Studer, worried the weather would postpone London's start against the Los Angeles Queens and they'd miss their flight the next morning. One hour later, security parted the gates. "Am I the very first inside?" yelled a teenage girl holding a baseball mitt as she rushed through a balloon-adorned entrance to be greeted by a custom bobblehead of Queens outfielder Mo'ne Davis. Sponsor Message Staff quietly hurried to tape falling signage to the walls, troubleshoot the jumbotron and cook burgers and hot dogs as rain seeped through the grated ceilings of the exterior walkways. Fans, meanwhile, made a beeline for the merch booth; within hours, sales were capped at two items per fan to accommodate demand. Underneath translucent ponchos, fans donned hats, sweatshirts and T-shirts in support of the league's four teams: the Queens, the Heights, the Boston Hunters and the San Francisco Firebells. Team loyalty was largely arbitrary, though; most said they were simply happy to support the athletes and to be present to witness the league's inaugural game. Players with the Boston Hunters and the San Francisco Firebells assist the grounds crew in rolling up the infield tarp prior to the start of the WPBL's inaugural game on Saturday, Aug. 1. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR Sabrina Robinson, the Boston Hunters' first baseman, fixes her hair in her hotel room before going out with her fellow players in the Women's Pro Baseball League on Thursday, July 30. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR Robinson (center) fist bumps her teammates at the conclusion of a preseason scrimmage prior to the WPBL's opening weekend on Thursday, July 30, in Springfield, Ill. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR The San Francisco Firebells get in some batting practice at the University of Illinois, Springfield's training field before the WPBL's inaugural weekend on Thursday, July 30. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR San Francisco Firebells coach Matt Williams (from left), second baseman Amanda Gianelloni, catcher Samantha Gutierrez and left fielder Skylar Kaplan in the dugout prior to their game on Sunday, Aug. 2. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR Fans from Delaware drove 1,700 miles to see Mo'ne Davis play in the WPBL's inaugural game in Springfield, Ill., on Saturday, Aug. 1. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR WPBL teams' captains and the league's commissioner, Justine Siegal, pass a torch to youth representatives of Baseball For All, a gender equity initiative to support girls in baseball, in Springfield, Ill., on Saturday, Aug. 1. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR Enter the players. The Hunters and Firebells, who would play the following day, wandered the grounds in full uniform. Many were greeted with hugs by their parents and siblings, who'd traveled from across the U.S. and from 11 different countries to witness their daughters and sisters play professionally for the first time. Girls and boys blocked the players' paths to ask for autographs, beaming at their parents as they showed off their newly signed T-shirts, mitts and baseballs. The weekend marked the start of the Women's Pro Baseball League's inaugural season. Its four host cities — Boston, Los Angeles, San Francisco and New York — were chosen for their history of sports loyalty and market size, yet the opening season will run for six weeks in the geographically central location of Springfield, Ill. A stray ball lands near Springfield's corn fields during preseason practice on Thursday, July 30. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR Rebecca Buchanan, of Springfield, Ill., dons a custom eye patch at a WPBL game at Robin Roberts Stadium on Sunday, Aug. 2. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR New York Heights players and fans prior to the start of the WPBL's inaugural game on Saturday, Aug. 1. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR A concessions stand worker at Springfield's Robin Roberts Stadium awaits her first customers on WPBL's opening day. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR Maybelle the Mascot, designed in honor of veteran baseball player Maybelle Blair, entertains the crowd between innings of the WPBL's opening game on Saturday, Aug. 1. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR Kelsie Whitmore (right), a pitcher for the San Francisco Firebells and the league's No. 1 draft pick, guides veteran baseball player Maybelle Blair, 99, off the field after the first pitch ceremony on the WPBL's opening day. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR Maybelle Blair, a veteran of the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League, a professional women's baseball league that was founded in 1943 and ran for 12 seasons, grips a baseball prior to throwing out the first pitch at the WPBL's inaugural game in Springfield, Ill., on Saturday, Aug. 1. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR Fans behind home plate during opening day ceremonies on Saturday, Aug. 1. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR The WPBL is the fifth professional women's baseball league in U.S. history, but Queens' third baseman Ashton Lansdell says, "We hope it's the fifth and the last." Sponsor Message Many of those signed to the WPBL began playing as young as 4 years old, and for many, their baseball trajectories stalled as they came of age and were told they were not allowed to compete alongside boys. But many of the players said the hurdle only fueled their determination to pursue the sport through other avenues. Baseball For All, a nonprofit founded by WPBL Commissioner Justine Siegal, has supported young women in finding opportunities for organized play in their communities, schools and universities. Many compete in annual competitions, including the Women's Baseball World Cup, and have had stints in regional and seasonal men's leagues. A select few, including Lansdell, Firebells pitcher Kelsie Whitmore and Heights catcher Denae Benites, have even found success in the viral Banana Ball league playing for teams like the Savannah Bananas. Most players, though, are juggling university studies or moonlight as bartenders, firefighters and architects to support their athletic dreams. While opportunities for women's baseball have grown in recent years, this is the first time that these women will have a chance to compete and play together for an extended period of time. "I've been practicing so long on my own," said Boston's first baseman, Sabrina Robinson, during preseason training. "It's so different finally playing with other [professionals] in the same place now." Sabrina Robinson, first basemen for the Boston Hunters, dances between innings to rile up the crowd during her team's first game in the Women's Pro Baseball League on Sunday, Aug. 2. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR A fan's rain-soaked scorecard on the WPBL's opening day. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR A young fan waves his shirt in the stands at Springfield's Robin Roberts Stadium on the WPBL's opening weekend. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR One of the LA Queens' players signs autographs for fans in the crowd during the game between the San Francisco Firebells and the Boston Hunters on Sunday, Aug. 2. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR The first game of the Women's Professional Baseball League, hosted at Springfield's Robin Roberts Stadium. The 5,200-seat stadium sold out for opening day. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR A young fan dons a Rockford Peaches uniform — a nod to one of the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League's teams that inspired the 1992 film A League of Their Own — at opening day on Saturday, Aug. 1. Jaclyn Licht for NPR hide caption toggle caption Jaclyn Licht for NPR As the rain subsided, the grounds crew scrambled to prepare the field. Players stepped in to help roll up the tarp covering the field as the sold-out crowd settled into damp seats. Meanwhile, on the third base line, 3-year-old Lenore Wooten took in the view of the field. "She'll never know this was never not a thing," said her mother, Jess. Jaclyn Licht is a freelance photographer based in Brooklyn, N.Y. Find more of her work on her website, JaclynLicht.com , or on Instagram, at @shwaclyn . Baseball Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR A tale of two very different horny movies Sports The first recorded grand slam in Women's Professional Baseball happened this week News North America poised for light display of aurora borealis Elections Data centers are a political issue crossing party lines, driving voters to candidates National Wildfires in urban areas are more common. That may have helped Spokane Ukraine mourns 'collector of souls' Oleksiy Yukov, killed recovering war dead More Stories From NPR The Picture Show For Deadheads across the country, the music never stops The Picture Show Photos: Wildfires in Spokane lead to thousands of evacuations The Picture Show The Clayton Sisterhood Project: A photographer captures her family's reverse migration from North to South The Picture Show How soccer brings a Bhutanese community together in Harrisburg, Pa. The Picture Show Photos: When the World Cup came to town The Picture Show 10 photographers share favorite moments from the Tiny Desk Contest Tour Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Space Solar eclipse to occur next week. Here is what to know Family Amid cost of living stress, many parents are supporting children well into adulthood World Yemen's Houthis claim attack on Aramco oil facility in Saudi Arabia, and other Middle East news Pop Culture Happy Hour A tale of two very different horny movies World Switzerland is a neutral nation but has more nuclear bunkers than any country in the world Elections Data centers are a political issue crossing party lines, driving voters to candidates NPR Editors' Picks Ukraine invasion — explained Ukraine mourns 'collector of souls' Oleksiy Yukov, killed recovering war dead The Americas K-pop's global wave inspires Chile's next pop stars Immigration Private prisons announce $1.4 billion in revenue as immigration detentions climb Health Reporting in the States Federal funds can't be used to give test strips to drug users, raising overdose fears The Ripple Effect How Jim James and Jeff Tweedy learned to love the Grateful Dead Politics Senate votes to confirm Todd Blanche as attorney general Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices