Because of Extreme Drought, Lake Powell is Barely a Lake Anymore - Universe Today Universe Today Home Videos Podcast Newsletter Join the Club RSS Feed Universe Today is 100% AD-FREE thanks to our patrons. Here's how we do it Because of Extreme Drought, Lake Powell is Barely a Lake Anymore By Nancy Atkinson - April 12, 2022 03:37 PM UTC | Planetary Science The two largest reservoirs in the United States are now at their lowest levels since they were first created. After several decades of drought – with the past two years classified as intense drought in the US Southwest -- both Lake Powell and Lake Mead are shrinking. Recent satellite images show just how dramatic the changes have been, due to the ongoing the climate crisis.. We wrote about Lake Mead last fall, and now new images of Lake Powell show the detrimental effects the drought has had. Lake Powell now bears little resemblance to a lake. Both Lake Mead and Lake Powell are on the Colorado River. Lake Mead was created in 1935 and Lake Powell in 1963. Both provide water to approximately 40 million people. Lake Powell also irrigates over 2.2 million hectares of land and has the capacity to generate more than 4,200 megawatts of hydropower electricity. The Glen Canyon Dam holds back the waters of the Colorado River, forming the large Lake Powell, which straddles the border of southeastern Utah and northeastern Arizona. Remarkably, after the dam was built, it took 17 years for the lake to fill the canyon to the high-water mark at 1,130 meters (3,700 feet) above sea level), becoming the US's second largest human-made lake, after Lake Mead. But in mid-March 2022, Lake Powell's elevation dropped to just 1,074 meters (3,520 ft) above sea level – the lowest the lake has been since it was filled in 1980. The lake now holds less than 30% of its capacity. This drastic drop in water levels is shown here below in natural-color images captured by ESA's Copernicus Sentinel-2 mission. The area pictured above shows the surface area changes of the reservoir near Bullfrog Marina, approximately 90 km north from Glen Canyon Dam, between March 2018 and March 2022. Dry conditions and falling water levels are unmistakable in the image captured on March 18, 2022, compared to the 2018 shoreline outlined in the image in yellow. The drop in water levels comes as hotter temperatures and falling water levels left a smaller amount of water flowing through the Colorado River. The peak inflow to Lake Powell occurs in mid-to-late spring, as the winter snow in the Rocky Mountains melts. To compensate for the low water levels, federal managers have started releasing water from upstream reservoirs to help keep Lake Powell from dropping below a threshold that threatens hydropower equipment at the dam. This line graph shows the drastic drop in average water levels in March since 2000, when Lake Powell was at around 1,120 meters (3,670 ft) elevation. The current elevation is just a few meters from what is considered the 'minimum power pool' – the level at which Glen Canyon Dam is able to generate hydroelectric power. If Lake Powell drops even more, it could soon hit a 'deadpool' where water will likely fail to flow through the dam and onto the nearby Lake Mead. Forecasters predict these conditions are likely to continue across more than half of the continental United States through at least June, straining water supplies and increasing the risk of wildfires. According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) the latest outlook for the US, nearly 60% of the continental US is experiencing drought. Lead image caption: This Copernicus Sentinel-2 image allows us a wider view of Lake Powell and its dwindling water levels amidst the climate crisis. Contains modified Copernicus Sentinel data (2022), processed by ESA. Sources: ESA , NASA Earth Observatory Q&A+ ▶ Our latest video — free on Patreon How Many Supernovae Made The Solar System? The extended edition: ad-free, with extra content. Free to watch — no account needed. ▶ Watch it free Nancy Atkinson Nancy Atkinson is a space journalist and author with a passion for telling the stories of people involved in space exploration and astronomy. She is currently retired from daily writing, but worked at Universe Today for 20 years as a writer and editor. She also contributed articles to The Planetary Society, Ad Astra (National Space Society), New Scientist and many other online outlets. Her 2019 book, "Eight Years to the Moon: The History of the Apollo Missions,” shares the untold stories of engineers and scientists who worked behind the scenes to make the Apollo program so successful, despite the daunting odds against it. Her first book “Incredible Stories From Space: A Behind-the-Scenes Look at the Missions Changing Our View of the Cosmos” (2016) tells the stories of 37 scientists and engineers that work on several current NASA robotic missions to explore the solar system and beyond. Nancy is also a NASA/JPL Solar System Ambassador, and through this program, she has the opportunity to share her passion of space and astronomy with children and adults through presentations and programs. Nancy's personal website is nancyatkinson.com Most read from Nancy Atkinson last 30 days 1 Order Of the Planets From The Sun Nov 2015 · 7.4K reads 2 Tricks to Remember the Planets Aug 2015 · 4.2K reads 3 New Kind of Gamma Ray Burst is Ultra Long-Lasting Apr 2013 · 1.9K reads 4 Astrophoto: Nova Centauri 2013 Turns Pink Dec 2013 · 1.8K reads 5 Everything in the Universe Fits in This One Graph. Even the Impossible Stuff Oct 2023 · 1.8K reads Previous Article ← Martian Astronauts Will Create Fuel by Having a Shower Next Article Just a Few Pixels Would let Astronomers Map Surface Features on an Exoplanet Like Oceans and Deserts → © 2025 Universe Today A space and astronomy news site Support our ad-free content Become a Patron Contact Us Privacy Policy This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License .