U.S.-Iran deal to open Hormuz could come Tuesday or Wednesday: Bessent Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Energy Bessent says there may be deal Tuesday or Wednesday to open Strait of Hormuz with 'freedom of movement' Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 7:50 AM EDT Updated 4 Hours Ago Spencer Kimball @spencekimball WATCH LIVE Key Points Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent told CNBC that the U.S. and Iran could reach a deal to open the Strait of Hormuz on Tuesday or Wednesday. Bessent said a deal would allow commercial ships to move freely through the strait. President Donald Trump said over the weekend that he called off a major attack on Iran to allow for negotiations. watch now VIDEO 5:04 05:04 Treasury Secretary Bessent: We may have a deal today or tomorrow to open the Strait of Hormuz Squawk Box The U.S. and Iran could reach a deal on Tuesday or Wednesday to reopen the Strait of Hormuz with freedom of movement for commercial ships, Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said in an interview. "We are in talks with the Iranians," Bessent told CNBC's "Squawk Box." "There is a chance we may have a deal today or tomorrow to open the strait and move towards a more normalized position in this conflict." "It would be freedom of movement," the Treasury secretary said when asked whether Iran would be allowed to charge a toll. U.S. crude oil futures fell nearly 6% to trade below $76 per barrel. Prices should drop further when hundreds of ships stuck in the Persian Gulf are able to exit, Bessent said. "It's not just energy. It's fertilizer, it's refined products, it is the various industrial gasses," he said. "We could see a big relief trade as those prices go down." Secretary of State Marco Rubio said the U.S. is involved in talks between Oman and Iran on how more ships can pass through Hormuz in the short term. "There's been progress made in those talks but not finality yet," Rubio told reporters at the State Department. "We're hoping that will happen very shortly." President Donald Trump said Saturday that he called off a major attack on Iran to allow for negotiations to reopen Hormuz. Trump has in the past repeatedly teased a deal to resolve the war only for fighting with Tehran to escalate again. The U.S. and Iran signed a memorandum of understanding on June 17 to reopen the strait. Ship traffic through Hormuz briefly rebounded before the deal collapsed due to disagreement between Washington and Tehran on which route ships could use to transit the strait. Iran began attacking tankers that transited Hormuz along Oman's coast under U.S. military protection. Tehran wants vessels to sail through its territorial waters when using the strait. Washington launched more than a dozen waves of airstrikes and reimposed its naval blockade on Iran in retaliation. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by