Kalshi traders are not expecting a U.S. and Iran nuclear deal soon Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Prediction Markets Kalshi traders are not expecting a U.S. and Iran nuclear deal soon Published Mon, Aug 3 2026 12:46 PM EDT Updated Mon, Aug 3 2026 3:48 PM EDT Ananya Chetia @ananya-chetia-a94121183 WATCH LIVE Key Points As of early Sunday morning, Kalshi traders saw a 29% likelihood of a nuclear deal between the U.S. and Iran before January 2027. That's up from 17% on Saturday evening. Odds of a deal before the new year rose after President Donald Trump announced that the U.S. would not strike Iran. All of Kalshi's market odds on when a nuclear deal will happen are under 50% — with the exception of the parties reaching an accord before January 2029, the furthest out date out of any market. Rarrarorro | Istock | Getty Images Despite President Donald Trump announcing that the U.S. and Iran are set to have negotiation talks on Monday, Kalshi traders are not optimistic that the two nations will reach a nuclear deal anytime soon. The odds of a U.S. and Iran nuclear deal jumped for several Kalshi markets on Aug. 2, after Trump called off planned military strikes against Iran late Saturday night on Truth Social . The halt happened at the request of Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Iran. After Trump called off the attacks, the likelihood on Kalshi that a nuclear deal would happen before January 2027 jumped to 29% early Sunday morning from 17% on Saturday evening. Similarly, as of early Sunday morning, Kalshi traders saw a more than 40% likelihood that a nuclear deal would be reached before March 2027. That's up from 20% Saturday evening. The outcome for the market would be verified if the U.S. agrees, signs or accepts a nuclear deal with Iran, according to Kalshi's website. Further, after Trump announced the U.S. and Iran would resume negotiation talks on Monday, Kalshi traders saw a lower likelihood of the two nations reaching an agreement over nuclear. All of Kalshi's market odds on when a nuclear deal will happen are under 50% — with the exception of the parties reaching an accord before January 2029, the furthest out date out of any market. Earlier Monday, Iran's Foreign Ministry spokesman Esmail Baghaei said in a news conference that there is no immediate plan for talks with the U.S. Oil prices dropped after Trump's announcement on negotiation talks and the move to halt strikes against Iran. West Texas Intermediate futures for September delivery fell 6% to trade below $80 a barrel, while Brent crude futures for October delivery fell more than 4%. Disclosure: CNBC and Kalshi have a commercial relationship that includes customer acquisition and a minority investment. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by