Presenter Tony Livesey leaves BBC Radio 5 Live after 16 years - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Entertainment & Arts Presenter Tony Livesey leaves BBC Radio 5 Live after 16 years By Paul Glynn Culture reporter Published 3 August 2026 Presenter Tony Livesey has left BBC Radio 5 Live after 16 years at the station, the corporation has announced. Livesey stepped back from his weekday late night talk show in June, following allegations made against his former newspaper boss David Sullivan. He had previously worked as editor-in-chief of Sullivan's Daily and Sunday Sport publications. Several women have accused Sullivan, a billionaire businessman and West Ham co-owner, of abusing his power and preying on them for sex, in some cases when they were teenagers. Sullivan has strongly denied the allegations. The claims against Sullivan were made in a joint investigation by the Times and BBC Panorama. The BBC previously said Livesey had asked to take a break from presenting his programme while the issues raised by the investigation were being examined. One alleged victim said that Livesey had arranged a meeting between her and Sullivan in 1999. Livesey said he had "no recollection" of introducing the young woman to Sullivan and that it was "not part" of his job to do so. He added that he had "great sympathy for a woman who may have become a victim", but rejected any suggestion that he had played "any role whatsoever in that scenario" and said he found the allegation "abhorrent". In an email sent to 5 Live staff on Monday morning, the station's controller Heidi Dawson said he had now decided to leave. "Tony has asked me to pass on his heartfelt thanks to the brilliant colleagues at 5 Live who he has had the pleasure of working with over the years," she wrote. "I know many of you have also really enjoyed working with Tony, and we wish him well for all his future endeavours." The award-winning presenter worked for the BBC from 2006 - the same year he left the newspapers - appearing on 5 Live from 2010 onwards, including a successful stint hosting its drivetime show. He won radio awards - ARIA and APAs - for his reporting on how it feels to lose your mother as a child, and an ARIAS gold award after he was asked by the late Dame Deborah James to conduct her final interview. His topical three-hour programme was broadcast on 5 Live from Monday to Thursday, featuring interviews and phone calls from listeners. Related topics BBC Radio More on this story Tony Livesey steps back from 5 Live after allegations against David Sullivan Published 9 June Radio host to Deborah James: I won't say goodbye. Video, 00:01:29 Radio host to Deborah James: I won't say goodbye Published 3 May 2023 The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:55 Moment Trump phones during Nasa presser. 00:00:55, play video Moment Trump phones during Nasa presser 0:34 Norway's new King pays tribute to parents. 00:00:34, play video Norway's new King pays tribute to parents 0:28 PM confirms PC Harper's killers will remain in prison. 00:00:28, play video PM confirms PC Harper's killers will remain in prison 1:13 Where does 'the world is your oyster' come from? 00:01:13, play video Where does 'the world is your oyster' come from? 0:48 'Digital nomads are lying to you' 00:00:48, play video 'Digital nomads are lying to you' 1:24 Understanding disorganised attachment style. 00:01:24, play video Understanding disorganised attachment style 1:24 This family have been carving 'Crazy Horse' for eight decades. 00:01:24, play video This family have been carving 'Crazy Horse' for eight decades 0:29 How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 00:00:29, play video How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 1:27 Are older and younger generations in conflict? 00:01:27, play video Are older and younger generations in conflict? 1:18 Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 00:01:18, play video Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 0:48 Model's photos used to catfish women. 00:00:48, play video Model's photos used to catfish women 1:29 The inventor who refused to take no for an answer. 00:01:29, play video The inventor who refused to take no for an answer 1:01 E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths. 00:01:01, play video E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths 1:07 NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England. 00:01:07, play video NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England 0:52 Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion. 00:00:52, play video Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion 0:59 Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation. 00:00:59, play video Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation 0:35 Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend. 00:00:35, play video Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend Top stories Prisoners freed early are returning to jail at rapid rate, governors tell BBC Published 6 hours ago Live . Nepal intensifying efforts to free hundreds believed trapped in hydropower tunnels 2565 viewing 2.6k viewing Patel to be replaced by Tugendhat as shadow foreign secretary Published 16 minutes ago More to explore Six ways parents could make the return to school a little easier Dementia patient's deportation from Sweden delayed They fell in love - then had to check they weren't brother and sister Mount Fuji pics, life-changing ramen and a weak yen - why young Brits are going to Japan I was told I was unworthy to be a mother, then they stole my baby We all share a 15-acre Georgian mansion for the price of a two-bed house The 'aerial assassin' who overcame a serious injury to reach his wrestling dream Dolly Parton's dad couldn't read - it inspired her to send books to millions of children Politics Essential: Get the latest news and analysis delivered to your inbox every weekday Elsewhere on the BBC Low-key noughties sitcom starring Robert Webb and Paula Wilcox Keith Richards recalls how he wrote the iconic 'Satisfaction' An unlikely gang set out to catch a killer who shattered rural peace Did Emily ruin Paris? Most read 1 Patel to be replaced by Tugendhat as shadow foreign secretary 2 Prisoners freed early are returning to jail at rapid rate, governors tell BBC 3 Seven arrested after death of newborn baby girl 4 US strikes Iranian launchers on Larak Island in first known attack in weeks 5 UK raises case of British activist detained by settlers in West Bank with Israel 6 British woman killed in stabbing at German railway station 7 Eight killed and others missing after ferry capsizes off northern Cyprus 8 'Killers blocked from early release' and 'Harry should fund security' 9 Lola Young surprises Reading Festival with final day set 10 'A giant leap forward': Nasa launches powerful new space telescope BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.