Florida pastor accused of having sex with 14-year-old boy while hiding HIV diagnosis IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Politics U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline U.S. news Florida pastor accused of having sex with 14-year-old boy while hiding HIV diagnosis The suspect, 42-year-old Timothy Chaneyfield of St. James United American Free Will Baptist Church in Winter Haven, was arrested and is facing multiple charges. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 St James Freewill United American Baptist Church in Winter Haven, Fla. Google Maps Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 5, 2026, 2:44 PM EDT / Updated Aug. 5, 2026, 4:04 PM EDT By David K. Li A “dope-smoking pedophile preacher” had sex with at least one underage boy and an adult man without telling them he was HIV positive — and Florida officials said Tuesday they fear there might be additional victims. Timothy Chaneyfield, the 42-year-old pastor at St. James United American Free Will Baptist Church in Winter Haven, was arrested after getting off a plane at Orlando International Airport on July 29, according to a Polk County Sheriff’s Office statement . The suspect and young male victim, 14, met on a dating app before Chaneyfield allegedly took their chats to Instagram which led to three meetings for sex, the sheriff’s office said. Tips from Instagram and the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children led detectives to Chaneyfield, Polk County sheriff Grady Judd told reporters on Tuesday. A 26-year-old man who also had sex with Chaneyfield was located by investigators and tested positive for HIV, Judd said. “The 26-year-old didn’t know (Chaneyfield was HIV positive) until we brought it to his attention and the 14-year-old had no clue that he was having unprotected sex with an adult that was HIV positive,” Judd said. “This guy’s nasty. He’s a menace to society and he’s proven that.” Polk County deputies wanted to arrest Chaneyfield last week, but the pastor was in Baltimore, leading a funeral service. “We actually tried to catch him while he was in Baltimore because we didn’t even want him wandering the streets of Baltimore. What is he up to there?” Judd said. But the sheriff said his department got “zero assistance” from authorities in Baltimore — an agency, a spokesperson for Judd on Wednesday, identified as the Maryland Department of Transportation Authority police. A representative for the MDTA police could not be immediately reached for comment on Wednesday. Chaneyfield has been booked on suspicion of three counts of lewd battery of a minor, three counts interfering with custody of a minor, unlawful use of a two-way communication device, three counts of traveling to meet a minor, four counts of having sex as an HIV-infected person without informing the partner, possession of marijuana and five counts possession of drug paraphernalia. “This is a dope-smoking preacher right here in front of you,” Judd said. “He’s a dope-smoking pedophile preacher right before you. And now he’s locked up in the county jail where he should be. He was well respected in the community. People trusted him, they believed in him. And now our plea is: if you’ve engaged this guy in sex, let us tell you (about his HIV status) because he didn’t.” The suspect also worked as the chaplain for Compassionate Care Hospice in Lakeland and had previously been employed by Crystal Lake Middle School as a substitute teacher. “I would be shocked if there weren’t other children victims out there,” Judd said. “I would be shocked if there weren’t other victims out there. He was very active. He was very engaged.” Calls to a publicly listed phone number for St. James United American Free Will Baptist Church in Winter Haven on Wednesday were met with a message that the line had been disconnected. Representatives for Compassionate Care Hospice and Broward County Public Schools could not be immediately reached for comment on Wednesday. The United American Freewill Baptist Conference said the St. James United American Free Will Baptist Church in Winter Haven “is not affiliated with, governed by, or under the ecclesiastical authority or jurisdiction of the United American Freewill Baptist Conference.” “Accordingly, we are unable to offer guidance, insight, legal interpretation, or further comment concerning the matter,” the national body said. It wasn’t clear on Wednesday if Chaneyfield had hired or been assigned a criminal defense to speak on his behalf. Share Add NBC News to Google David K. Li Senior Breaking News Reporter About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC