Americast - The Democrats need to win Michigan… so why is it splitting the party? - BBC Sounds Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds Bitesize CBeebies CBBC Food Home News Sport Business Technology Health Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live More menu Search Sounds Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds Bitesize CBeebies CBBC Food Home News Sport Business Technology Health Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Close menu BBC Sounds Sounds home page Menu Home Music Podcasts My Sounds Use BBC.com or the new BBC App to listen to BBC podcasts, Radio 4 and the World Service outside the UK. Find out how to listen to other BBC stations Episode details News , · 31 Jul 2026 , · 33 mins The Democrats need to win Michigan… so why is it splitting the party? Americast Play Bookmark Bookmark Subscribe Subscribe Available for over a year The Democrats almost certainly need to win the Senate race in Michigan if they are to take control of Congress in November’s midterm elections but picking a candidate is exposing a stark choice for the party. Next week party members in the state will decide between a left wing candidate backed by Bernie Sanders and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, and a centrist candidate backed by establishment Democrats like Gretchen Whitmer. It's opened up a debate about whether the success of other progressive candidates like Zohran Mamdani could be replicated across the country as the Democrats build a strategy to take on the Republicans at the midterms and beyond. Just how important is the race in Michigan for the Democrats, and will the outcome have an outsized role in deciding how they approach the 2028 presidential election? HOSTS: - Justin Webb, Radio 4 presenter - Sumi Somaskanda, BBC News chief presenter GET IN TOUCH: - Join our online community: https://discord.gg/qSrxqNcmRB - Send us a message or voice note via WhatsApp to +44 330 123 9480 - Email Americast@bbc.co.uk - Or use #Americast This episode was made by George Dabby with Alix Pickles. The technical producer was Ben Andews. The series producer is Purvee Pattni. The senior news editor is Sam Bonham. If you want to be notified every time we publish a new episode, please subscribe to us on BBC Sounds by hitting the subscribe button on the app. You can now listen to Americast on a smart speaker. If you want to listen, just say "Ask BBC Sounds to play Americast”. It works on most smart speakers. US Election Unspun: Sign up for Anthony’s BBC newsletter: bbc.co.uk/news/world-us-canada-68093155 Americast is part of the BBC News Podcasts family of podcasts. The team that makes Americast also makes lots of other podcasts, including Newscast. If you enjoy Americast (and if you're reading this then you hopefully do), then we think that you will enjoy some of our other pods too. See links below. Newscast: bbc.co.uk/sounds/series/p05299nl Top Comment: bbc.co.uk/sounds/brand/m001mssm Radical: bbc.co.uk/sounds/brand/p0gg4k6r The Global Story: www.bbc.co.uk/sounds/brand/w13xtvsd Programme Website Show less More episodes Cymraeg Gaeilge Gàidhlig BBC Sounds Help Contacts, Privacy and Information Help with Signing In Newsletter Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds Bitesize CBeebies CBBC Food Home News Sport Business Technology Health Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Cookies Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Make an editorial complaint Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.