Trump revives effort to fire Fed's Lisa Cook Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Politics & Policy Trump revives effort to fire Fed's Lisa Cook Published Fri, Aug 7 2026 1:45 PM EDT Updated Fri, Aug 7 2026 2:38 PM EDT Kevin Breuninger @KevinWilliamB Megan Cassella @in/megan-cassella-ba02a160/ @mmcassella WATCH LIVE Key Points President Donald Trump is "considering" firing Federal Reserve Board Governor Lisa Cook, the White House said. Trump first tried to fire Cook last year on mortgage fraud allegations, but Cook denied the charges and filed a lawsuit challenging her dismissal. A federal court blocked Trump from firing Cook while her suit was pending. The Supreme Court, in a 5-4 ruling in late June, upheld that decision. "These allegations are as baseless now as they were a year ago," Cook's attorney Abbe Lowell said. Federal Reserve Board Governor Lisa Cook participates in a board meeting at the Federal Reserve on March 19, 2026 in Washington, DC. Kevin Dietsch | Getty Images President Donald Trump is "considering" firing Federal Reserve Board Governor Lisa Cook, the White House said this week, reviving an effort that had been stymied by the Supreme Court in June. White House presidential aide Dan Scavino, in a letter to Cook dated Wednesday, said there is "sufficient reason to believe that you made false statements on one or more mortgage agreements." Those are the same allegations Trump and his allies floated when he first moved to fire Cook from the central bank last year. Cook denied the charges and filed a lawsuit challenging her dismissal. A federal court blocked Trump from firing Cook while her suit was pending. The Supreme Court, in a 5-4 ruling in late June, upheld that decision against a challenge the president. But Chief Justice John Roberts noted that the court's decision did not stop Trump from trying again to remove Cook over the mortgage fraud allegations. Any new attempt to fire her would require additional steps in order to protect Cook's Constitutional due process rights, Roberts wrote. Scavino, Trump's deputy chief of staff and director of the Office of Presidential Personnel, wrote that he was sending Wednesday's letter "pursuant to the Supreme Court's opinion." He instructed Cook to provide an "explanation for your false statements and accompanying evidence" within three weeks. Abbe Lowell, a lawyer for Cook, told CNBC in a statement that the allegations "are as baseless now as they were a year ago when President Trump tried to remove Governor Cook and interfere with the independence of the Federal Reserve." "No matter what President Trump tries to do next, this much is clear under the facts and Supreme Court precedent — there is no valid cause for removing Governor Cook," Lowell's statement said. "As we did before, we will challenge this latest pretext and preserve her position and the historic role of the Fed." The Federal Reserve declined to comment on the White House's letter. Trump's initial move to fire Cook, who was appointed by former President Joe Biden , came as he ramped up his efforts to pressure the Fed to slash interest rates. The mortgage-related allegations were surfaced by Federal Housing Finance Agency Director Bill Pulte , who has been criticized as an " attack dog " for Trump. Pulte has also targeted other of Trump's perceived political foes, including New York Attorney General Letitia James , who also faced allegations of mortgage-related wrongdoing. — CNBC's Dan Mangan and Jeff Cox contributed to this report. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by