Miss North Carolina USA stripped of her crown, pageant says ‘standards and values’ not upheld IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Politics U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Pop Culture News Miss North Carolina USA stripped of her crown, pageant says ‘standards and values’ not upheld The pageant organizer did not elaborate on why it removed Brittany Boltinhouse’s title. The national group’s CEO said it “does not tolerate racism, homophobia, transphobia, nor language that strips any person of their dignity.” Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 The Miss USA delegates pose onstage during the 2024 pageant. Alberto E. Rodriguez / Getty Images file Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 6, 2026, 1:08 PM EDT / Updated Aug. 6, 2026, 2:15 PM EDT By David K. Li Miss North Carolina USA organizers have stripped the recently crowned winner of her title, saying Wednesday that she had failed to uphold the pageant’s “standards and values.” Brittany Boltinhouse, 27, will not represent the Tar Heel State at the 75th annual Miss USA 2026 pageant on Aug. 27 in Miami, according to Blaize Productions, organizers of the North Carolina competition. Instead, first runner-up Myla Hadley will represent North Carolina later this month. “As an organization entrusted with selecting and preparing women to represent our states on the national stage, we must uphold the standards and values that our titleholders agree to embrace when accepting the honor of wearing the crown,” A Blaize Productions said in a statement. “After careful consideration, multiple conversations and in consultation with the Miss USA Organization, A Blaize Productions has made the difficult decision to conclude Brittany Boltinhouse’s reign as Miss North Carolina USA 2026,” the statement added. A Blaize didn’t elaborate on Botinhouse’s alleged missteps, but Miss USA President and CEO Thom Brodeur issued a separate statement saying that the organization “does not tolerate racism, homophobia, transphobia, nor language that strips any person of their dignity — whoever they are.” Boltinhouse could not immediately be reached for comment via publicly listed phone numbers on Thursday. She posted a lengthy, cryptic warning to followers on Wednesday, urging them to be “careful who you take advice from.” “Not everyone deserves a seat at the table when it comes to your dreams,” Boltinhouse wrote . “If someone has never built what you’re trying to build, never taken the risk you’re taking, or never achieved the goals you’re chasing, their opinion shouldn’t carry more weight than your vision. Take advice from people who have walked the path, not just people who have opinions. Dream big, work hard, and let your results do the talking.” Share Add NBC News to Google David K. Li Senior Breaking News Reporter Madonna Deverson , Isa Morales , Tavleen Tarrant and Nollaig O'Connor contributed . About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC