Commissioner Mitchell Statement on Lake Powell Elevation 3525' | DNR CWCB Skip to main content Search Search Menu Colorado Water Plan Toggle Colorado Water Plan submenu 2023 Update Basin Implementation Plans Focus Areas Toggle Focus Areas submenu Supply Toggle Supply submenu Water Supply Planning Demand Management Land Use Urban Water Efficiency Colorado Water Loss Initiative Water Sharing Agreements Weather Modification Snowpack Assessment Viewer (SNODAS) Storage Projects Reuse Ecosystem Health Toggle Ecosystem Health submenu Watershed Health Instream Flows Endangered Species Salinity Wild & Scenic Rivers Interstate Toggle Interstate submenu Compacts Demand Management Colorado River Basin Commissioner's Corner Contribution Program Industries Toggle Industries submenu Agriculture Recreation Hazards Toggle Hazards submenu Climate Flood Drought Future Avoided Cost Explorer Funding Toggle Funding submenu Water Project Loan Program Grants & Special Programs Public Information Toggle Public Information submenu Calendar Drought Task Force Board Meetings Agency History Water Conditions Monitoring Committee Latest News Technical Tools Newsletter Archive Podcasts Document Search Law & Policy About Us Toggle About Us submenu The Board Staff Interbasin Compact Committee Basin Roundtables Jobs Diane Hoppe Memorial Scholarship Home Commissioner Mitchell Statement on Lake Powell Elevation 3525' Commissioner Mitchell Statement on Lake Powell Elevation 3525' Wednesday, March 16, 2022 Submitted by [user:field_first_name] Hide Featured Image true As of March 15, Lake Powell, a major reservoir that feeds water to the Lower Colorado River Basin, fell below elevation 3525 feet. This is the target elevation identified within the Drought Contingency Plan that provides a buffer to hydropower. The decline in Lake Powell was caused by over 20 years of low inflows in the Colorado River System, coupled with depletions that exceeded supplies. The imbalance between depletions and available River flows has historically been compensated by taking water from storage in Lake Powell and Lake Mead to provide for downstream depletions, thus causing declines in reservoir elevations. Below is a statement from Colorado River Commissioner Becky Mitchell: “ Lake Powell hit elevation 3525 feet this week, which is a direct result of depletions from our major reservoirs over the last 20 years coupled with low flows into Lake Powell. As Lake Powell and Lake Mead have declined, water users in the Upper Colorado River Basin have been living on the front lines of climate change. The Upper Basin states of Colorado, New Mexico, Utah, and Wyoming have been taking water cuts for 20 years due to prolonged drought, while continuing to meet our Compact obligations. On top of this, water has been provided from Flaming Gorge and Blue Mesa Reservoirs in an effort to protect Lake Powell. Going forward, all who rely on the Colorado River System must learn to live with what the River provides and adapt to variability of water supply .” For more information and updates, visit the Commissioner’s Corner . Related Tags: • Colorado River Show Post Date Recent Colorado Water Center and Colorado Water Conservation Board Launch New Water Education & Workforce Resource Hub June 10, 2026—The Colorado Water Conservation Board (CWCB), in partnership with the Colorado Water Center (CoWC), is pleased to announce the launch of a new online Water Education and Workforce… CWCB Elects New Board Chair and Vice Chair At its May 2026 Board meeting in Lone Tree, the Colorado Water Conservation Board elected Barbara Vasquez as Board Chair and Mike Camblin as Vice Chair. Governor Polis Activates Phase 3 of Colorado’s Drought Response Plan, Declares Statewide Drought Emergency Mission The Colorado Water Conservation Board mission is to conserve, develop, protect and manage Colorado’s water for present and future generations. Learn More Subscribe to our Newsletter Join CWCB's public email list to receive the Confluence Newsletter (every other month), which includes the latest Colorado water updates and significant updates from Board Meetings. This list also receives monthly press releases with timely and newsworthy updates. Subscribe Sign up for Public Notices and Meeting Notifications Create a Department of Natural Resources portal account to manage your CWCB email notifications. Sign Up Visit our accessibility page for accommodations. Colorado Water Conservation Board | 1313 Sherman Street, Room 718 | Denver, CO 80203 | (303) 866-3441 Visit dnr.colorado.gov/EDI to learn about our commitment to equity, diversity, and inclusion. You can view our website in the language of your choice by selecting from the below options: placeholder © 2026 State of Colorado Transparency Online General Notices Colorado Official State Web Portal