Up First briefing: Anthony Fauci; Abdul El-Sayed; Trump's economy : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Up First briefing: Anthony Fauci; Abdul El-Sayed; Trump's economy Abdul El-Sayed has won Michigan's Democratic Senate primary and will face Republican Congressman Mike Rogers in the midterms. And, today, Dr. Anthony Fauci faces a contempt of Congress vote. Special Series Up First Newsletter All Up First Stories Up First Podcast Morning Edition LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music RSS link El-Sayed wins Michigan's primary. And, Fauci faces contempt of Congress vote August 6, 2026 7:30 AM ET By Brittney Melton Hormuz Negotiations, Michigan Senate Race, Trump Talks Economy Listen · 13:28 13-Minute Listen Playlist Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/g-s1-137574/nx-s1-mx-5922766-1" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Transcript Good morning. You're reading the Up First newsletter. Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox, and listen to the Up First podcast for all the news you need to start your day. Today's top stories Democratic candidate Abdul El-Sayed defeated Rep. Haley Stevens in Michigan's primary and is now set to face Republican Congressman Mike Rogers in the November midterms. The two will be vying for a Senate seat that is being vacated by Democratic Sen. Gary Peters. The Senate race is expected to be a tough battle that Democrats see as a must-win to regain control of the chamber from Republicans. People vote in the primary election at Northwestern High School in Detroit, Tuesday. Nic Antaya/AP hide caption toggle caption Nic Antaya/AP 🎧 A Republican hasn't won a U.S. Senate race in Michigan since the '90s , according to Michigan Public Radio's Colin Jackson. El-Sayed built a younger coalition campaigning alongside Bernie Sanders and AOC. Jackson says he'll now have to appeal to the traditional coalition Stevens relied on, which includes Black, working-class and Jewish voters. El-Sayed also faces a significant fundraising gap , as Republican groups have already committed at least $45 million against him. Rogers, an established Republican, appeals to the Make America Great Again base and has labeled El-Sayed as a communist and extremist — accusations the Egyptian-American calls baseless. To win the race, Rogers will need to attract MAGA Republicans without alienating independents who oppose President Trump. Sponsor Message A Senate committee is expected to vote today on whether to hold Dr. Anthony Fauci in contempt of Congress . The retired health official who directed the U.S. government's coronavirus response invoked his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination last week during a hearing, refusing to answer lawmakers' questions. Fauci has often clashed with Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., over the origins of the COVID-19 pandemic. In the days before the hearing, Paul released more than 1,000 pages of Fauci's private diary entries, accusing him of hiding his uncertainty about the cause of the pandemic. The vote on Fauci comes a day after the Senate confirmed Dr. Erica Schwartz as the new director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, an agency with which Fauci closely worked during the pandemic. At an event in Las Vegas yesterday, Trump pitched voters on his economic agenda , which he has been struggling to sell as prices have risen amid the U.S. and Israel's war with Iran. Las Vegas relies heavily on tourism, and tipped workers say the president's policies aren't helping. A new Reuters/Ipsos poll shows that more Americans favor Democrats over Republicans on economic issues for the first time in nearly a decade. Trump continues to say the U.S. economy is thriving under his policies, including no taxes on tips, while blaming high prices on inherited conditions from Democrats. Sponsor Message 🎧 Tipped workers in Vegas tell NPR's Deepa Shivaram that they received higher tax refunds this year, but they are facing other economic challenges that have made things difficult. Tourism in the city declined more than 7% in 2025, according to the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority. Shivaram notes a decline in tourist numbers from Canada after Trump soured relations with the country over tariffs. Residents say Trump's policy of no taxes on tips isn't enough , especially as Vegas grapples with declining tourism and higher prices. U.S. District Judge Amit Mehta reluctantly dismissed the conspiracy case against Stewart Rhodes, the founder of the far-right Oath Keepers, and several other key members. Juries previously convicted Rhodes and five others of attempting to overthrow the government through force, contributing to the violence and chaos as rioters breached the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021. The Department of Justice under the Trump administration moved to vacate the convictions and drop the case. Judge Mehta's dismissal marks the conclusion of prosecutors' efforts to hold Trump's supporters accountable for their violent siege of the Capitol. Living better Michael Driver for NPR Living Better is a special series about what it takes to stay healthy in America. Snacking culture has been forever changed by ultra-processed foods, which are designed for on-the-go convenience and can be found in vending machines across communities. Many pediatricians recommend that toddlers to tweens eat around three meals and two snacks a day. But that advice stems from studies that didn't account for the rise of processed foods. These snacks can increase children's intake of saturated fat, sodium, and sugar, and they're often high in calories. To make sure children get the nutrients they need, researchers suggest these new rules for the current state of the food world: 🍎 Avoid snacks high in total carbohydrates, like crackers, pretzels and puffs. These foods often contain refined starches, which can spike blood sugar, leading to crashes that make kids crave more high-carb snacks. 🍎 Wean children off processed snacks and onto whole foods. Ultraprocessed snacks can tempt kids to eat even when they're not hungry. 🍎 Focus on the quality of snacks over their frequency. Foods like fruits, nuts, beans, and dairy can enhance kids' diets by increasing their intake of vitamins and fiber while helping to foster a love for vegetables, behavioral nutritionist Jennifer Orlet Fisher says. 🍎 Stop carrying ultraprocessed options in your purse or bag. When snacks aren't available, children will stop associating your bag with snacks and will eventually no longer expect them. Sponsor Message Picture show Saturday, June 13, 2026 — Festival goers cheer for The Hip Abduction at All Good Now festival. KT Kanazawich for NPR hide caption toggle caption KT Kanazawich for NPR As the weather warms and the sun comes out, so do the Deadheads. These fans of the Grateful Dead gather, groove and keep the good vibes going even though there are no original band members on tour. From themed hangouts at Garcia's, a Chicago venue dedicated to the band's lead vocalist, to the All Good Now festival at the iconic Merriweather Post Pavilion in Maryland, fans spent this summer proving that the power of The Grateful Dead never stops. See photos from Deadhead celebrations from across the country . 3 things to know before you go A man walks on the sandbank by the wreckage of a WWII German warship, emerged due to the drought, in front of Djerdap II, a large dam on the Danube River, between Romania and Serbia, near Prahovo, Serbia, Tuesday, Aug. 4, 2026. Darko Vojinovic/AP hide caption toggle caption Darko Vojinovic/AP Europe's heat wave has drawn back the waters of Serbia's river, revealing Nazi-era German warships that were sunk in 1944 during their retreat. The Dallas Zoo welcomed a new bundle of joy last week: a 230-pound male elephant calf . (via KERA News ) Ahead of this weekend's USA Triathlon in Milwaukee, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee researcher Todd Miller deployed a custom solar-powered buoy in Lake Michigan. The device will track real-time water temperatures at different depths, helping the thousands of competing athletes prepare for race conditions before they take the plunge. (via WUWM ) This newsletter was edited by Suzanne Nuyen . Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Elections Abdul El-Sayed, Michigan's Democratic Senate nominee, discusses the race Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after Health A new flu vaccine geared to older people is coming soon Politics Senate Homeland Security committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress Politics Progressive Abdul El-Sayed wins Michigan's Democratic primary for Senate Global Health This country is the latest to hit the elusive 95/95/95 HIV target More Stories From NPR Up First Newsletter U.S. missile stockpiles dwindle. And, FDA weighs approval of flu shots with mRNA tech Up First Newsletter 5 states hold primaries today. And, Spokane police arrest man connected to wildfire Up First Newsletter Todd Blanche rescinds 'anti-weaponization fund'. And, Trump calls off striking Iran Up First Newsletter Trump announced a deal for Hamas to disarm. And, the U.S. economy slowed a bit Up First Newsletter Sen. Paul threatens to hold Fauci in contempt. And, a new rule undercuts U.S. asylum Up First Newsletter U.S. and Iran resume attacks. And, Fauci to face Senate questions on COVID pandemic Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after Middle East conflict Iran aims to ban U.S. and Israeli ships from Strait of Hormuz and charge others a toll Politics Senate Homeland Security committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress Health A new flu vaccine geared to older people is coming soon Politics The park service says Trump's arch would obstruct historic sites. Could it be moved? Education Trump administration moves to deregulate Head Start, opening door for sweeping change NPR Editors' Picks Research News Sticky or slippery? Snails can change their slime to meet the moment Author Interviews Death is everywhere in the desert — it's where Claire Vaye Watkins feels most alive Sports European nations say World Cup boycott is still on, keeping FIFA's Infantino in limbo Global Health This country is the latest to hit the elusive 95/95/95 HIV target TV Reviews 'Furious' is an unforgettable thriller, not just a 'Black Widow' remake Politics Celebrity culture is one thing. For TMZ, Congress is the new 'reality show' Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices