Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate Image source, Yeovil Conservatives/Getty Images By Paul Seddon , Political reporter and Nick Eardley , Political correspondent Published 5 August 2026, 16:47 BST Updated 1 hour ago A former neo-Nazi selected by the Conservatives to fight a council election next year has pulled out after a backlash against his candidacy. Joshua Bonehill-Paine was convicted of racially harassing Jewish former Labour MP Luciana Berger in 2016, while already serving a separate jail sentence for sharing antisemitic posts. Tory leader Kemi Badenoch had defended the decision to select him as a candidate for the new Somerset Council seat of Crewkerne South, saying he had been rehabilitated and her party "believes in second chances". But Bonehill-Paine said he had now withdrawn his candidacy, and had been offered a position as an anti-extremism adviser to the party. In a social media post, he said the position with the Conservative Party's Culture and Integration Commission would focus on advising on how to prevent young men from being radicalised. Berger, who now sits as Baroness Berger in the House of Lords, described the appointment as an "insult," adding that making him a party adviser was "no better than allowing him to stand as a council candidate". The position as an anti-extremism adviser to the party is unpaid, the BBC understands. Bonehill-Paine spent three years in prison after he was jailed in 2015 for posting antisemitic material ahead of a planned neo-Nazi rally. He was convicted of racially harassing then-Labour MP Berger the following year. Image source, PA Media Image caption, Joshua Bonehill-Paine in a photograph taken in 2016 He has described his past views as "indefensible" and says he has spent years opposing antisemitism since leaving prison in 2018. But the party's decision to pick him for the Somerset seat sparked a huge political backlash, with Jewish groups declining the offer from Bonehill-Paine of a meeting. The criticism of his candidacy from Jewish groups made Bonehill-Paine's decision to step down feel increasingly inevitable. There are likely to be questions about Badenoch's judgement in this case after her decision to defend him so publicly raised eyebrows in Westminster. UK Foreign Secretary Ed Miliband said Bonehill-Payne "should never have been a candidate ... given the harassment that he visited on Luciana Berger, a colleague and a friend of mine". "[The] Conservative Party should answer for why he was a candidate in the first place and also for any future activities he might be undertaking on behalf of the Conservative Party," he said. Baroness Berger, who attended court at the OId Bailey in London to give evidence in Bonehill-Paine's trial, has said his past behaviour fell "very, very short" of the standard required to stand for public office. Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Baroness Luciana Berger said Joshua Bonehill-Paine "showed utter contempt" during the case in 2016 Speaking earlier, she said Bonehill-Paine's harassment "affected my life in lots of different ways because of the volume of the material that he was disseminating and putting out, the extremity of it in terms of just frankly how shocking and awful it was". "It was very difficult just being in court and having to give evidence at that time, I was over six months pregnant," she told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. In sentencing remarks, the judge said it was "difficult to envisage a worse case than this of racially aggravated harassment of this kind", adding Bonehill-Paine had "sat in the dock smirking throughout the trial" and had "plainly enjoyed" Baroness Berger's discomfort. 'Piling on' In his social media post, Bonehill-Paine said his local election candidacy would prompt opposition parties to "spend all their time focusing on my past rather than the work I'm doing today". "Rather than standing as a local council candidate, I believe that my experience is better used supporting Kemi Badenoch in her ongoing mission to combat the antisemitism and extremism that is dividing our nation," he added. In a blog post earlier for ConservativeHome, he said his anti-extremism work had included delivering training sessions and seminars for institutions including universities, schools, colleges, and probation services. In a social media post, Badenoch said: "While I am sad that Joshua feels he won't be given the space to explain his position and represent his community, I am glad he is going to work with me and the party on tackling radicalisation." "If we are going to stop extremism and antisemitism we are going to need help from those people who were part of the problem, but have now changed and are being part of the solution," she added. "Piling on them and trying to get them cancelled may be sport for other parties, but this is a different Conservative Party." But Reform UK hit out at Badenoch's decision to offer him the adviser role, with a spokesman saying it "beggars belief" and was "alarming news for the Jewish community in Britain". Adam Dance, Liberal Democrat MP for Yeovil, said Bonehill-Paine's withdrawal was "the right outcome, but it should never have got to this point". He said: "What's most concerning now is Kemi Badenoch's response – she has not accepted her party got this wrong, and instead frames legitimate concern about antisemitism as 'piling on'. That is a troubling message to send." The Board of Deputies of British Jews welcomed his withdrawal as a council candidate, adding: "We continue to urge all parties to use their vetting to ensure a robust stance on racism and discrimination, including antisemitism." Related topics Conservative Party More on this story Ex-MP urges Tories to block council candidate jailed for antisemitic abuse against her Published 8 hours ago Ex neo-Nazi activist selected as Tory candidate Published 1 day ago The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia 0:50 Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea. 00:00:50, play video Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea 1:01 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller. 00:01:01, play video 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:49 Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales. 00:00:49, play video Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales 0:59 The city closing down streets so children can play. 00:00:59, play video The city closing down streets so children can play 1:23 The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII. 00:01:23, play video The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII 1:30 What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK. 00:01:30, play video What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK 0:37 Crispy butter beans with whipped feta. 00:00:37, play video Crispy butter beans with whipped feta 0:57 Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites. 00:00:57, play video Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport Top stories Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate Published 1 hour ago Fifa admits mistakes but Infantino remains president Published 28 minutes ago Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London Published 5 hours ago More to explore The cost of being single – and how friends are teaming up to beat it From flip flops to fisherman's sandals: How to look after your feet this summer 'My grandmother subjected my baby to female genital mutilation behind my back' 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' Kate Nash on Irish history, heritage and covering Sinéad O'Connor There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media 'This year has been the worst for my heat anxiety' Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Love shouldn't feel like fear How hydrated do you really need to be? Melvin Odoom on the MiniDiscs he can't throw away The origin story of the first Comic Con Most read 1 Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London 2 University of Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 3 El-Sayed's victory sends tremors through Democratic Party 4 See the Sun like never before with most detailed images yet 5 Iran says it has agreed Strait of Hormuz shipping route with Oman 6 Family 'devastated' by death of girl, 9, as man charged with murder 7 Student loan repayment rates an 'unsustainable burden', chancellor told 8 Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate 9 Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England 10 Apology after carer fed dog food to elderly woman by mistake BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.