Argentina grain exports halt as maritime pilots strike over Milei decree | Labour Rights News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up News | Labour Rights Argentina grain exports halt as maritime pilots strike over Milei decree More than 45 vessels have been affected by the strike at Argentinian ports. Listen (2 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google A drone view shows containers at the Dock Sud Port during a maritime workers strike, in Avellaneda, Buenos Aires province, August 4, 2026 [Agustin Marcarian/Reuters] By Al Jazeera Staff and Reuters Published On 4 Aug 2026 4 Aug 2026 A strike by maritime workers has prevented ships from entering and leaving Argentina’s grain ports, disrupting commercial activity in one of the world’s leading grain suppliers. Argentina is the largest exporter of soya bean products and a major exporter of corn and wheat, with most shipments moving through ports along the Parana River. Any bottleneck at its ports is a significant hit to the global food markets. Recommended Stories list of 3 items list 1 of 3 EU trade deal with South America’s Mercosur bloc takes provisional effect list 2 of 3 Argentina’s grain harvest suffers under worst drought in 60 years list 3 of 3 EU-Latin America trade deal: Who wins? end of list Maritime pilots walked off the job on Monday after the government published a decree on Friday that deregulated river navigation services. The decree, signed by Argentinian President Javier Milei, states, “It is necessary to enact a new ‘Regulation for Pilotage Services for the Rivers, Ports, Waterways, and Canals of the Argentine Republic’ that promotes the streamlining of procedures, the modernisation of regulatory requirements, and the elimination of obsolete or disproportionate regulations.” Gustavo Idigoras, president of business chamber CIARA-CEC, noted on X that at least 45 vessels were affected by the protest. “If this is not resolved today [Tuesday], we will be adding about 30 more ships, and so on,” Idigoras said on X . The strike is led by the pilots who steer ships through Argentina’s rivers and coastal waters into its main commercial ports and have specialised knowledge of the waterways. A union representing the workers warned the decree could cut demand for Argentinian pilots and put jobs at risk. Argentina’s coastguard on Tuesday ordered the pilots to return to work through a notice published in the country’s official gazette, warning of the possibility of disciplinary sanctions. Advertisement The standoff leaves a large portion of the world’s grain supply hanging on the outcome of a dispute over who controls one of its most technical maritime roles. In February 2026, Argentina ratified the EU-Mercosur deal, a massive trade deal between the European Union and four South American countries: Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay. The deal eliminates tariffs on more than 90 percent of trade between the two blocs. Argentinian senators voted 69-3 in favour of the pact to create one of the world’s biggest free trade zones. The agreement favours European exports of cars, wine and cheese, while making it easier for South American beef, poultry, sugar, rice, honey and soya beans to enter Europe. Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network