US seeks extradition of Filipino church leader accused of fraud, sex crimes | Sexual Assault News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up News | Sexual Assault US seeks extradition of Filipino church leader accused of fraud, sex crimes Apollo Quiboloy leads the Kingdom of Jesus Christ church, which was founded in 1985 in Davao and had branches in the US. Listen (3 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google Apollo Quiboloy takes his oath at a Philippine Senate hearing in Manila, Oct. 23, 2024 [Aaron Favila/AP] By Al Jazeera Staff and The Associated Press Published On 6 Aug 2026 6 Aug 2026 The United States has requested the Philippines extradite a Filipino church leader who is on the FBI’s most wanted list to stand trial for child sex trafficking and fraud. The Department of Foreign Affairs in Manila said it received the US government’s request for Apollo Quiboloy’s extradition on Thursday and endorsed it to the Department of Justice. Recommended Stories list of 3 items list 1 of 3 Some fear US-Philippines war games are drawing conflict closer to home list 2 of 3 Philippines accuses China of using water cannon on vessels for second day list 3 of 3 Tuberculosis: How drones are transforming care in the Philippines end of list The request needs approval from two Philippine courts, which have been trying the detained former televangelist for human trafficking and child abuse charges, according to two officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity due to a lack of authority to discuss the issues publicly. Quiboloy was arrested in 2024 on charges of child and sexual abuse as well as human trafficking. The Philippine Senate separately ordered Quiboloy’s arrest at the time for refusing to appear in public hearings about his alleged crimes. He has been jailed since then. The preacher denied the allegations, saying they were fabricated by critics and former members who were removed from his religious group. Criminal suspects in the Philippines must finish their trials and serve their sentences if convicted prior to extradition. However, under the 1994 extradition treaty between Washington and Manila, Philippine justice officials can ask a domestic court to allow the temporary surrender of a suspect to a foreign court to face trial prior to the resolution of their Philippine cases. Quiboloy, 76, leads the Kingdom of Jesus Christ church, which was founded in 1985 in Davao in the southern Philippines and claims to have a large following both at home and abroad, including the US. Advertisement The self-proclaimed “appointed son of God” and “owner of the universe” has made outrageous claims that provoked questions about his character but endeared him to his followers. He once claimed to have stopped a major earthquake from hitting the southern Philippines in 2019. Quiboloy was an influential religious leader in the Philippines and regarded as a political kingmaker. He served as spiritual adviser to former President Rodrigo Duterte, who took office in June 2016. Duterte was arrested in Manila last year under a warrant from the International Criminal Court and has since been detained in the Netherlands to face trial for alleged crimes against humanity. In 2021, US federal prosecutors announced an indictment of Quiboloy for allegedly having sex with women and underage girls who faced threats of abuse and “eternal damnation” unless they agreed. It is also alleged that female members of the church were recruited to work as personal assistants, or “pastorals,” for Quiboloy. They would prepare his meals, clean his homes, give him massages and were required to have sex in what the pastorals called “night duty.” Quiboloy was among nine people named in a superseding indictment returned by a US federal grand jury and unsealed in November 2021. It contained a series of charges, including conspiracy, sex trafficking of children, sex trafficking by force, fraud and coercion, marriage fraud, money laundering, cash smuggling and visa fraud. Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network