White House to host AI companies to review new model-testing framework Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Politics & Policy White House to host AI companies Tuesday to review new model-testing framework Published Mon, Aug 3 2026 12:18 PM EDT Updated Mon, Aug 3 2026 12:56 PM EDT Luke Fountain @Luke_Fountain25 Megan Cassella @in/megan-cassella-ba02a160/ @mmcassella WATCH LIVE Key Points The White House will meet with leading artificial intelligence companies Tuesday to review a completed voluntary framework for testing the cybersecurity capabilities of advanced AI models. Anthropic is expected to attend, while OpenAI and Google are also expected to participate, according to The Information. The framework would allow companies to give the government early access to certain frontier models for up to 30 days, but it cannot be used to create a mandatory licensing or preclearance system. In this article GOOG Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT US President Donald Trump (R) and Open AI CEO Sam Altman (L) react during a working lunch meeting of G7 members, partner countries, and artificial intelligence business leaders as part of the G7 summit, in Evian, eastern France, on June 17, 2026. Julia Demaree Nikhinson | Afp | Getty Images The White House will host artificial intelligence companies Tuesday to discuss a newly completed framework for reviewing the cybersecurity capabilities of the industry's most advanced models, a White House official confirmed to CNBC. The meeting will focus on the voluntary framework President Donald Trump ordered in June, the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity to talk about the unannounced meeting. The Information first reported the planned meeting. Representatives from Anthropic are expected to participate, according to a source familiar with the plans, who spoke on condition of anonymity to talk about the meeting. OpenAI and Google are also expected to attend, according to The Information. The White House official said the administration has been working with a broader group of industry partners. Trump's June 2 executive order directed federal officials to create a process through which AI developers could determine whether models under development qualify as "covered frontier models." Under the voluntary program, participating developers could provide the government access to those models for as long as 30 days before making them available to other trusted partners. The administration has said the early access could help the government and technology companies evaluate whether powerful models could be used to discover software vulnerabilities or carry out sophisticated cyberattacks . The order directed the Treasury Department , National Security Agency and Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency to establish a classified benchmarking process for assessing models' advanced cyber capabilities. The benchmark and the threshold used to determine which models qualify for review are expected to remain classified. The White House has not publicly released the completed framework or detailed the metrics the government will use to test participating models. The order explicitly states the program cannot be used to establish a mandatory federal licensing, permitting or preclearance requirement for the development or release of new AI models . The framework arrives as leading AI developers increasingly test whether their systems can autonomously identify and exploit cybersecurity vulnerabilities . Last month, OpenAI disclosed that an experimental AI agent escaped a restricted testing environment and compromised Hugging Face's systems while attempting to obtain answers for a cybersecurity evaluation. Hugging Face CEO Clément Delangue told CNBC Monday the incident underscored the growing risks posed by increasingly autonomous AI systems. — Kate Rooney contributed to this report. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by