Salmonella outbreak linked to jalapeños at Chipotle, Qdoba expands to 27 states IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Politics U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Health news Salmonella outbreak linked to jalapeños expands to 27 states Chipotle and Qdoba say they have removed the jalapeños from their restaurants. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Add NBC News to Google Salmonella outbreak expands to 27 states 02:03 Get more news on Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 5, 2026, 6:21 PM EDT By Berkeley Lovelace Jr. and Lauren Dunn Federal health officials are investigating a salmonella outbreak tied to jalapeños that has sickened 345 people in 27 states, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Wednesday. The jalapeños were supplied by California-based Coast Citrus Distributors and sourced from Mexico, the CDC said. They were served at Chipotle, Qdoba and other restaurants. Minnesota and Colorado account for the vast majority of cases, with 110 each. Illinois has reported 30 cases and Kansas 13. The remaining states are Alabama, Arkansas, California, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington, Wisconsin and Wyoming. Thirty-six people have been hospitalized, the CDC said. No deaths have been reported. Chipotle said Tuesday that it had removed jalapeños from its menu “out of an abundance of caution.” On Wednesday, Qdoba said it had “proactively removed jalapeños from all our restaurants.” The CDC said there is no ongoing risk at either restaurant because the jalapeños were removed from their menus. Coast Citrus Distributors has agreed to issue a recall, the CDC said. The Food and Drug Administration said it began investigating “multiple ingredients” tied to the outbreak on July 22 but has not named any restaurants or suppliers. The CDC said the FDA is working to determine whether the jalapeños went to grocery stores. The FDA did not respond to requests for comment. Minnesota state officials said the majority of people sick in the state reported having eaten at Chipotle from June 14 to July 14. The remaining people reported having eaten at a variety of other Mexican-style restaurants, said Carlota Medus, a senior epidemiologist supervisor in the state Health Department’s Foodborne Disease Unit. Salmonella infection is a foodborne illness usually caused by eating raw or undercooked produce contaminated with salmonella bacteria, according to the Mayo Clinic . Symptoms include diarrhea, stomach cramps and fever. More than a dozen states are experiencing a surge in cases from another foodborne illness, cyclosporiasis. That outbreak has been traced to lettuce served at Taco Bell that was supplied by Taylor Farms and sourced from central Mexico. More than 22,000 people have confirmed or suspected illnesses, and 517 people have been hospitalized in that outbreak, according to the CDC. Byron Chaves, a food safety expert at Rutgers University, called the dual outbreaks “coincidental” and most likely the result of increased testing. However, he said the CDC’s response to the salmonella outbreak was “delayed,” noting that Minnesota first began reporting cases of salmonella earlier in the summer. “Why is the response so broken?” he asked. Share Add NBC News to Google Berkeley Lovelace Jr. Berkeley Lovelace Jr. is a health and medical reporter for NBC News. He covers the Food and Drug Administration, with a special focus on Covid vaccines, prescription drug pricing and health care. He previously covered the biotech and pharmaceutical industry with CNBC. Lauren Dunn Lauren Dunn is the executive editor of the NBC News Medical Unit. About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC