AMD earnings report Q2 2026 Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech AMD's revenue climbs 50% and data center sales doubled, but the stock is down Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 4:31 PM EDT Updated 5 Min Ago Kif Leswing @kifleswing WATCH LIVE Key Points Advanced Micro Devices reported second-quarter earnings on Tuesday. The chipmaker beat expectations on the top and bottom lines and provided in-line guidance for the current quarter. AMD makes both data center CPUs and GPUs. Both kinds of AI chips are driving the company's growth and the unit's sales doubled on a year-over-year basis. In this article AMD Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 0:50 00:50 AMD shares sink more than 10% despite earnings beat Closing Bell: Overtime Advanced Micro Devices reported second-quarter earnings on Tuesday that beat expectations, but the stock slumped in extended trading after rising during regular trading hours. Here's how the chipmaker did versus LSEG consensus estimates for the quarter ended June 27: EPS : $1.66, adjusted, versus $1.62 expected Revenue : $11.54 billion versus $11.28 billion expected Overall, AMD revenue climbed 50% from $7.69 billion a year ago, a sign of the company's central position in the market for artificial intelligence chips. AMD's Data Center unit is what is driving the company's growth. Data Center sales were $6.7 billion, up 107% on an annual basis, which the company attributed to central processing unit and graphics processing unit sales. The chipmaker's stock has nearly tripled over the past year, both on optimism that its AI chips, branded Instinct, will take a meaningful amount of a growing market from Nvidia , as well as the resurgence of the CPU — which AMD sells under the brand name Epyc — which AI experts now say is an essential component for running agents. AMD said it expects about $13 billion in revenue for the current quarter, plus or minus $300 million, versus LSEG expectations of $12.52 billion. Some analysts had been looking for guidance as high as $14 billion. In July, AMD raised its expectations for the size of the semiconductor industry, saying it could be worth $2 trillion per year by 2028. The chipmaker sees $1.4 trillion of that coming from AI accelerators, or GPUs, up from a previous estimate of $500 billion by 2028. The company will also start shipping Helios, its first rack AI system, this quarter to companies like Meta , OpenAI , and Oracle . It's AMD's first rack-scale system, using its CPUs, GPUs, and networking chips, which directly competes with Nvidia's complete systems, not just its chips. AMD said on Tuesday that it expected Helios shipments to ramp up in the fourth quarter. "We expect Data Center sales to accelerate in the second half of 2026, driving stronger overall revenue growth and continued earnings expansion," AMD CFO Jean Hu said in a statement. Lisa Su, chair and chief executive officer of Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD), holds up the AMD Ryzen AI Halo, an AI developer platform, during an AMD news conference ahead of the annual Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, Nevada, on Jan. 5, 2026. Caroline Brehman | AFP | Getty Images On an earnings call with analysts, AMD CEO Lisa Su said that the company expects its data center sales to double in 2027, and that server revenue will up more than 80% on an annual basis in the second half of the company's fiscal 2026. "Demand for both accelerators and CPUs is growing well above our prior expectations," Su said. Su added on the earnings call that the company's CPU business has taken market share during the quarter. AMD's main CPU rival is Intel. "Hyperscalers continued expanding Epyc across their internal infrastructure and public cloud offerings, including AWS, Microsoft, Google, Oracle, and others," Su said. AMD's business selling CPUs and GPUs for consumer devices like laptops and consoles, called client and gaming, was only up 6% year-over-year to $3.8 billion. Its embedded segment, which includes chips for industrial purposes, grew 19% on an annual basis to $977 million. The company said it spent $808 million on capital expenditures, a steep increase from $282 million in the year-ago period and $389 million in the March quarter. "Our first half performance has been very strong and although we are expecting that the market will decline in the second half, the market has actually held up better than most people would have thought," Su said about the company's PC business. AMD reported $2.3 billion in net income, or $1.38 per diluted share, versus $872 million in net income, or 54 cents per diluted share in the year-ago period. Read more CNBC tech news SpaceX revenue jumps 92% and AI costs soar in first earnings report since IPO NJ files antitrust suit against Amazon, alleging it unlawfully wielded power over delivery contractors Palantir stock skyrockets on 'otherworldly' commercial revenue — here's what's driving the demand How the 'Baby iPhone' and an Apple supplier leak explain China's recent supply chain moves Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by