Stocks rally near a record as falling oil prices ease Wall Street's worries about inflation - Los Angeles Times News Home Page California Election 2024 Housing & Homelessness Politics Science & Medicine World & Nation Business Artificial Intelligence Autos Jobs, Labor & Workplace Real Estate Technology & the Internet California California Politics Earthquakes Education Housing & Homelessness L.A. Influential L.A. Politics Mental Health Climate & Environment Climate Change Water & Drought Entertainment & Arts Arts Books Stand-Up Comedy Hollywood Inc. The Envelope (Awards) Movies Music Television Things to Do De Los En Español Food 101 Best Restaurants in L.A. Recipes Image Art & Culture Conversations Drip Index: Event Guides Fashion Shopping Guides Styling Myself Lifestyle Health & Wellness Home Design L.A. Affairs Plants Travel & Experiences Weekend Things to Do in L.A. Obituaries Voices Editorials Letters to the Editor Contributors Short Docs Sports Angels Angel City FC Chargers Clippers Dodgers Ducks Galaxy High School Sports Kings Lakers Olympics USC UCLA Rams Sparks World & Nation Immigration & the Border Mexico & the Americas Middle East Ukraine Times Everywhere 404 by L.A. Times Facebook Instagram LA Times Today Newsletters Photography Podcasts Short Docs TikTok Threads Video YouTube X (Twitter) For Subscribers eNewspaper All Sections _________________ LA Times Studios BUSINESS • AI & Tech • Automotive • Banking & Finance • Commercial Real Estate • Entertainment • Goods & Retail • Innovators Unplugged • Healthcare & Science • Law • Sports • Orange County HOT PROPERTY • Decor & Design • Homes For Sale LIVE & WELL • Fitness • Beauty • Body • Longevity TRAVEL • Trip Ideas • Travel Destinations • Travel Themes • Travel Experiences THE HUB: REBUILDING LA DOCTORS & SCIENTISTS DEALS & COUPONS NEWSLETTERS Live Stream Events Screening Series Crossword Games L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Group Subscriptions Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip? L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store LA Times Studios Capabilities News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance & Permissions Short Docs Advertising Classifieds Find/Post Jobs Hot Property Sections Local Ads Marketplace L.A. Times Digital Agency Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? Place an Ad Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Special Supplements Healthy Living Higher Education Philanthropy Sections Tap to enable a layout that focuses on the article. Focus mode Show Search Search Query Submit Search Advertisement Business Stocks rally near a record as falling oil prices ease Wall Street’s worries about inflation A trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. (Yuki Iwamura / Associated Press) By Stan Choe Aug. 3, 2026 1:32 PM PT 5 min Click here to listen to this article Share via Close extra sharing options Email Facebook X LinkedIn Threads Reddit WhatsApp Copy Link URL Copied! Print 0:00 0:00 1x This is read by an automated voice. Please report any issues or inconsistencies here . p]:text-cms-story-body-color-text" data-subscriber-content> The U.S. stock market rallied to the edge of its all-time high on Monday after easing oil prices helped calm Wall Street’s worries that inflation could get even worse. The S&P 500 jumped 1.5% and is just 0.1% below its record set earlier this summer. It was coming off a frenetic July, where it swung up and down as oil prices shot higher because of the war with Iran, before ultimately ending the month just about where it started. The Dow Jones industrial average, which measures a narrower slice of the U.S. stock market, climbed 693 points, or 1.3%, to an all-time high, while the Nasdaq composite leaped 2.1%. Advertisement Stocks got a lift as the price for a barrel of Brent crude sank 4.7% to $83.77. It dropped after President Trump said over the weekend that he decided to hold off on new strikes against Iran at the urging of allies in the region. Brent’s price careened between $72 and $102 last month as worries rose and fell about when the war with Iran would allow oil tankers to freely exit the Persian Gulf again to deliver crude to customers worldwide. The latest acquiescence by Trump helped to ease worries about the global flow of crude, and Treasury yields correspondingly fell in the bond market. The yield on the 10-year Treasury sank to 4.68% from 4.75% late Friday. But it remains well above its 3.97% level from before the war with Iran. Advertisement Higher yields threaten to undercut prices for stocks and other investments, while slowing the economy by making borrowing more expensive for U.S. households and businesses. The average long-term U.S. mortgage rate has already leaped to its highest level in a year. Monday’s ease in oil prices helped airlines and other companies with big fuel bills lead the market. United Airlines flew 5.8% higher, while American Airlines climbed 5%. Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings steamed 6.6% higher. Boeing jumped 8% after U.S. regulators certified its 737 MAX-7 planes, clearing them for commercial service. Tyson Foods rose 2.8% after the meat company reported a slightly stronger profit for the spring than analysts expected. CEO Donnie King said strength is continuing in the company’s chicken business and its prepared foods, which include brands such as Jimmy Dean and Hillshire Farm. It joined a lengthening list of big U.S. companies to deliver a bigger profit for the spring than analysts expected. That’s imperative for Wall Street because stock prices tend to follow the path of corporate earnings over the long term, and worries were rising that U.S. stock prices may have broadly already shot too high. Companies in the S&P 500 are on track to deliver earnings per share for the spring that are 47% higher than a year before, according to FactSet, with more than half of the companies in the index having already reported. If that ends up being the case, it would be the strongest growth since the spring of 2021, when the economy was roaring out of the COVID-19 pandemic. Advertisement Also offering encouragement for profits was a report on Monday showing that growth for U.S. manufacturing accelerated to its strongest level since 2022. Keeping Wall Street unsettled, though, were swings for stocks of companies that make computer chips. They’ve been veering up and down for weeks on worries about whether their surging revenues because of the artificial-intelligence boom are sustainable. If AI ends up producing less profit and productivity than hoped, Big Tech companies could curtail their spending sprees on data centers that have helped chip stocks soar to tremendous heights. Micron Technology went from a drop of 6.4% to a gain of 1.7% through the day before ending with a gain of 0.8%, for example. It’s up roughly 190% for the year so far. All told, the S&P 500 rose 110.78 points to 7,600.50 and finished just shy of its all-time closing high of 7,609.78. The Dow Jones I climbed 693.38 to 53,178.41, and the Nasdaq composite rallied 540.04 to 25,913.90. The manic swings for AI stocks have been most dramatic in South Korea, where the Kospi index is dominated by just two tech titans, Samsung Electronics and SK Hynix. Advertisement Seoul’s Kospi fell 5.1% Monday, coming off Friday’s 17.9% surge that was its best day in history. In neighboring Japan, Tokyo’s Nikkei 225 fell 0.9% after the United States and Japan confirmed they had moved together to prop up the value of the Japanese yen against the dollar. A stronger yen would help to limit inflation in Japan, but it could also potentially hurt Japan’s exporters. Choe writes for the Associated Press. More to Read Stocks edge further from their records after oil prices rise Aug. 17, 2026 Stocks rise to a record as oil prices drop and inflation gets less bad Aug. 13, 2026 Stocks edge down from their record high after oil prices climb 5% Aug. 10, 2026 Show Comments Business Inside the business of entertainment The Wide Shot brings you news, analysis and insights on everything from streaming wars to production — and what it all means for the future. By continuing, you agree to our Terms of Service , which include arbitration and a class action waiver. You agree that we and our third-party vendors may collect and use your information, including through cookies, pixels and similar technologies, for the purposes set forth in our Privacy Policy such as personalizing your experience and ads. Login or register with email Agree & Continue More From the Los Angeles Times Business California lawmakers kill wildfire bill after utility complaints Sept. 1, 2026 Business Stocks slip on Wall Street under pressure from higher oil prices and rising bond yields Sept. 1, 2026 Hollywood Inc. Jewish artists defend Mark Ruffalo amid Paramount’s allegations of antisemitism Sept. 1, 2026 World & Nation ‘Stop trying to be tough’: Carney fires back at Trump as U.S.-Canada trade fight escalates Sept. 1, 2026 Most Read in Business Voices Hiltzik: The U.S. national debt has reached $40 trillion. Should you care? Sept. 1, 2026 Voices Hiltzik: The LAX people mover wasn’t ready for the 2026 World Cup. Will it even be ready for the 2028 Olympics? Aug. 20, 2026 Business Is Long Beach ready for a floating nuclear power plant? Here’s what to know Aug. 28, 2026 Business Airlines are redesigning travel around their highest-paying passengers July 7, 2026 Subscribers are Reading Notorious crouching sniffer known throughout Glendale and Burbank is arrested again After years of the snarky grind, ‘Club Kid’ feels transformative for Jordan Firstman At Daisy Chain Fields, the Lilith Fair generation passes the torch Reports split over whether forced contraception of Greenlandic women and girls constituted genocide For Subscribers Here are the highest- and lowest-earning college degrees in California, according to new data Advertisement Latest Business Apple taps hardware chief John Ternus as CEO, ending Tim Cook’s $4-trillion run Sept. 1, 2026 China’s breakneck electric car boom hits a regulatory speed bump Sept. 1, 2026 Federal Trade Commission and 22 states sue Amazon over inflated advertising prices Sept. 1, 2026 How Meta, Google and TikTok are racing to guess your child’s age — and what could go wrong Sept. 1, 2026 Rebecca Lowe, Ted Lasso and innovation helped NBC’s Premier League gamble pay off Sept. 1, 2026 Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Subscribe for unlimited access Site Map Follow Us X Instagram YouTube Facebook eNewspaper Find/Post Jobs Place an Ad Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? Invest Now: Own a Part of History MORE FROM THE L.A. TIMES Crossword Obituaries Recipes Guides L.A. Times Store About/Contact For the Record L.A. Times Careers Manage Subscription Reprints and Permissions Copyright © 2026, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information