The sneaky economics of healthwashing : Planet Money : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics The sneaky economics of healthwashing : Planet Money Why food companies love labels like "organic" and "high protein," why our brains are misled by them — and how to avoid paying extra for marketing. Planet Money The Economy Explained Planet Money Podcast The Indicator Podcast Planet Money Newsletter Archive Planet Money Summer School About Twitter Facebook NPR Planet Money LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music RSS link Planet Money The sneaky economics of healthwashing August 4, 2026 6:30 AM ET Greg Rosalsky d3sign/Getty Images This article first appeared in the Planet Money newsletter. You can sign up here . If you go to a store like Whole Foods, you'll find a lot more than … whole foods. You'll also find bougie packaged snacks, cereals, and all sorts of other processed foods and drinks. Often they'll have buzzwords on their packaging. "Organic." "Non-GMO." "High protein." "No Cholesterol." "100% Avocado Oil." These products tend to cost more, and they come with a sort of promise: they're better for you than the cheaper stuff. But these food products may not actually be healthier than the cheaper stuff. Sometimes it's because they're still packed with sugar, salt, saturated fat, preservatives, and other additives. Other times their healthy-sounding ingredients aren't actually healthier (labels like "organic" and "non-GMO" don't necessarily make a product more nutritious). In other, more extreme cases, these products may not even include the healthier ingredients they're charging you a premium for. Sponsor Message Our NPR colleague Maria Godoy recently reported on a new study by researchers at UC Davis that suggests a bunch of avocado-oil products have false claims on their packaging. The researchers did a chemical analysis of 54 products that listed avocado oil as their only oil ingredient. We're talking swanky products like avocado-oil potato chips, salad dressing, and mayonnaise. The researchers found that, despite being labeled as containing only that pure, uncut avocado oil — a whopping 89% of the products they tested appeared to be adulterated with other oils. One avocado-oil product appeared to have no avocado oil at all, according to one of the researchers. For Millennials like me who sustain ourselves almost exclusively on avocado products, it's enough to make you fall into an avocado pit of despair. The good news is that this appears to be one of the more egregious recent examples of food mislabeling. If a product lists avocado oil as its only oil ingredient but actually contains other oils, that could violate federal food-labeling rules. The study did not determine who introduced the other oils or whether the brands themselves knew about them. But it could help lead to more accurate labels. The bad news, however, is that companies don't have to literally lie on their ingredient lists to mislead consumers. There are subtler ways. They can nudge consumers into believing their products are healthier — and worth paying a premium price — by using buzzwords, clever packaging, and other marketing gimmicks. Some consumer advocates call this "healthwashing." Sponsor Message So in this edition of the Planet Money newsletter, we're digging into the economics of healthwashing. Why is it so profitable? Why are our brains so susceptible to it? And what, if anything, should regulators do about it? Along the way, we called up one of the legends of food policy to help us figure out how to shop without getting hoodwinked. People shop at a supermarket in Santa Monica, California, on September 13, 2022. US annual inflation slowed slightly in August, largely thanks to falling gasoline prices -- but likely not enough to satisfy the Federal Reserve and President Joe Biden, as high prices continue inflicting pain on Americans. (Photo by Apu GOMES / AFP via Getty Images) APU GOMES/AFP via Getty Images hide caption toggle caption APU GOMES/AFP via Getty Images The economics of healthwashing The economics of healthwashing starts with a simple reality: we often don't really know what's in the food products we're buying. Economists have one of those off-putting, jargony terms for this: asymmetric information. But it's a simple idea. It's when one side of a transaction has less information than the other. And it can have serious consequences for the health of a marketplace. One consequence is that it gives businesses more opportunities to mislead and overcharge consumers. Think getting ripped off by a mechanic, being convinced to get an unnecessary test by a doctor, buying a crappy used car from a dishonest dealer — or paying $10 for a bag of supposedly pure avocado-oil chips when those chips are actually made with cheaper, less Millennial-coded oils. In the absence of complete information about what we're buying, we consumers have to rely on clues to figure out whether the stuff we're buying is legit. What is the Yelp review of this mechanic? Where did this doctor go to med school? Do I trust that this brand of avocado-oil chips is actually using avocado oil? It's like we're lost in the supermarket ( h/t The Clash ) and searching for anything that helps us make the best decision for ourselves and our families. Economists see this sort of information problem as a justification for government intervention. When buyers can't easily tell what they're buying, markets don't work as well as they should. That's why the federal government requires most packaged foods to disclose their ingredients and nutrition information. (Though, as Sarah Gonzalez recently reported for Planet Money , the FDA's oversight of our food system still has some surprising blind spots.) Sponsor Message But we're human. We're busy. We don't have hours to spend at the grocery store decoding nutritional information. So we resort to mental shortcuts. We focus on the front of the package. We look for buzzwords. Attractive packaging. Pictures of healthy-looking people frolicking under avocado trees or whatever. Behavioral economists call our tendency to make these kinds of snap judgments based on marketing cues the " health halo effect ." It's a cognitive bias where one healthy-sounding claim or visual can cast a halo over everything else, making us assume a product is healthier overall than it really is. Sometimes that could be a "high-protein" or "organic" label. Sometimes it could be, well, hamburger buns packaged to look like a six-pack of abs . Healthwashing isn't just about persuasion. It may also be part of a pricing strategy. Some shoppers are willing to pay more for products than others. Companies would love to know the maximum each of us is willing to pay for a bag of chips, and then charge each of us exactly that amount. Some shoppers — typically those with more disposable income to burn — are willing to pay more for foods that seem healthier (even if they aren't necessarily). Labels like "organic," "non-GMO," and "100% avocado oil" may help companies appeal to those customers and convince them to pay a premium, sometimes for products that aren't all that different from their cheaper counterparts. How breakfast cereal helped pioneer healthwashing To get a richer — or should we say more nutritious — understanding of healthwashing, we called up Marion Nestle, who is pretty much a legend in the food policy world (and has no relation to the food company with the same name). She's now an emerita professor of nutrition, food studies, and public health at New York University, and she's spent decades studying how the food industry shapes what we eat through marketing, supermarket practices, and government lobbying. Sponsor Message Nestle has been spending her recent days thinking a lot about… breakfast cereal. I mean, so have I. I always think about cereal. But she's thinking about it more in an academic, intellectual sense. She has a book coming out soon, Sugar Coated , which she co-authored with a former cereal executive. It traces how cereal companies helped pioneer many of the marketing strategies that made sugary, ultra-processed foods seem wholesome and nutritious. In fact, Nestle says, one of the first big cereal companies, Kellogg's, got its start promoting breakfast cereal as a health food. Over the next century, cereal companies became masters at selling products as healthy — even as many of those cereals became increasingly sugary. Nestle says cereal boxes are essentially billboards. And, facing fierce competition for your attention in the grocery aisle, cereal companies have become masters at marketing their products. Nestle also argues that sustained government pressure from Big Cereal helped expand the health claims they could place on packages. Think like "heart healthy" or "good for your immune system." "The cereal companies pushed, and pushed, and pushed, and pushed, and eventually forced the FDA to allow them to make health claims on cereal boxes," Nestle says. She says this was ultimately backed up by Congress and the courts. "First Amendment rights to market junk food to kids, you know?" One of her favorite recent examples of what she considers healthwashing, Nestle says, is Cookies & Crème Cheerios Protein. Because what could be healthier than protein-packed cookies and cream for breakfast? How not to get hoodwinked by healthwashing So how do we avoid getting hoodwinked by healthwashing? Of course, not every healthy-sounding label is misleading. A "low-sugar" fruit snack may very well be healthier than a regular fruit snack. Nestle says it's important to read a product's nutrition facts and ingredients list. She puts more weight on the ingredients list because she says the nutrition facts information can be confusing. "The ingredient list is easier," she says. "It just lists everything in order of weight. That one's easy and tells you a lot." Sponsor Message But even with government regulations that force food makers to list ingredients and nutrition information, many consumers continue to get tricked into believing that products are healthier than they actually are. Is there more the government should do? There's now a movement to make nutrition information much harder to miss. Under a proposed FDA rule , most packaged foods would have to carry a small box on the front labeling their levels of saturated fat, sodium and added sugar as "Low," "Med" or "High." The idea is to translate the numbers buried in the Nutrition Facts panel into something shoppers can understand at a quick glance. Nestle points to several Latin American countries that have gone further, requiring prominent warning symbols on products that are high in sugar, sodium, saturated fat or other ingredients of concern. "There's now an enormous amount of research that shows that sales of foods with warning labels are down — significantly enough so that the food industry just hates them," she says. " What has been more difficult to show is that the reduction in sales of these foods has had an effect on health. That's been harder to show." But maybe healthy eating doesn't have to be so complicated. "The healthiest foods don't have nutrition facts panels," Nestle says. Think apples, oranges, farro, almonds, kale, and broccoli. Nestle says Michael Pollan, the author of The Omnivore's Dilemma , has been able to distill proper healthy eating advice into seven words: "Eat food. Not too much. Mostly plants." Maybe it's worth adding three more words: Ignore the marketing. P.S. I left out one of the wildest implications of asymmetric information. When buyers can't reliably tell high-quality products from low-quality ones, the low-quality products can actually drive the good ones out and wreck a whole market. Think of the avocado-oil market: if shoppers can't reliably tell faux avocado-oil products from the real deal, honest producers are forced to compete against cheaper knockoffs that look just as good on the shelf. This is known as "adverse selection." It's one of the central insights of Nobel Prize-winning economist George Akerlof's famous paper " The Market for Lemons "— one of the most influential economics papers ever written. It's also one of the inspirations behind the Planet Money board game : Sell Me a Sasquatch . Which is convenient, because next week's newsletter is a little behind-the-scenes look at the economics ideas and inside jokes baked into the game. Stay tuned! You can subscribe here . Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices