Can Australia make housing affordable while avoiding a major market crash? We may soon find out | Housing | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters Less generous tax settings for property investors has made betting on rising home prices less attractive. Where this will settle is impossible to predict. Photograph: Diego Fedele/AAP View image in fullscreen Less generous tax settings for property investors has made betting on rising home prices less attractive. Where this will settle is impossible to predict. Photograph: Diego Fedele/AAP Housing Analysis Can Australia make housing affordable while avoiding a major market crash? We may soon find out Patrick Commins Politicians’ fever dreams of ‘sustainable price increases’ – where values keep rising but by less than wages – could happen Follow our Australia news live blog for latest updates Get our breaking news email , free app or daily news podcast Thu 6 Aug 2026 11.00 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 17.29 EDT Share The Reserve Bank has hiked interest rates and the property market is in retreat. So far, so normal. Or is it? There is a sense that this year’s fall in home prices feels different from previous episodes. The data tells another story. Over the past four decades there have been seven property market downturns of varying length and depth, according to analysis put together by Shane Oliver, AMP’s chief economist. They are often triggered by interest rate hikes, which make home loans more expensive, but they also occur during crises and policy changes. Graph showing a history of property price declines For instance, there was a short-lived fall from April 2020 during the Covid-19 pandemic lockdowns, when the average capital city home value fell by 1.5% over three months. Two years later, and at the tail end of a massive boom, there was a much steeper decline after the RBA started its rearguard battle against roaring inflation. Between April 2022 and January 2023, prices dropped by 8.1%. The largest downturn in property prices in recent memory started in September 2017, when average capital city home values declined by 8.2% – albeit over a much longer 19 months. That time it was a regulatory crackdown on investor lending in an attempt to squash some of the speculative fervour that had gripped the market. Which brings us to today. Sign up for the Breaking News Australia email Oliver forecasts that average prices across the capital cities will keep falling until about April next year, capping a 7.8% drop from top to bottom. That would certainly make it among the steepest falls in the past four decades – UBS says the average since the early 1990s has been a 5% decline over 13 months. Oliver says this year’s home price declines started with the three straight interest rate hikes but are now more about the shift in sentiment triggered by the government’s changes to property investor taxes – a psychological twist that makes it harder to predict how things will turn out from here. “So far it looks similar to past cyclical downturns, but I think it’s early days yet,” he says. It’s also worth noting that the downturn looks very different depending on where you are in the country, as analysis from NAB shows. For example, the bank’s economists predict the peak-to-trough declines in Sydney and Melbourne will be in the order of 10%, versus 2% to 4% falls across the mid-sized capitals. And looking at performance by calendar year – instead of just the periods where prices are falling – values in Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide and Hobart are predicted to be higher in 2026. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | When needed Sign up to Breaking News Australia Get the most important news as it breaks Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion Table showing property price changes in Australian state capitals They expect prices to level out in early 2027 before beginning to grow “modestly” through the second half of next year thanks to lower interest rates and improving sentiment. “Ultimately, we see house prices continuing to be well supported by the imbalance of supply and demand,” they note. Still, change is in the air. Less generous tax settings for property investors has changed the maths and made betting on rising home prices less attractive. Where this will settle is impossible to predict. Interest rates are expected to be structurally higher than they were before the pandemic. That means mainstream politicians’ fever dreams of “sustainable price increases” – where values keep rising but by less than wages – may happen. NAB forecasts pretty stagnant property price growth next year. Will that be the new normal? And if it is, surely that is a step in the right direction on the long, long road to achieving a more affordable property market without a major crash? In the meantime, expect the government to cop plenty of flak for “attacking aspiration” or “deliberately crashing Australians’ wealth”. But as Oliver says, despite all the angst and outrage, politicians of all stripes profess to want more affordable homes. Slashing immigration, turbocharging building or hiking taxes – or some combination of these – all lead to a situation where house prices would come off and be more stagnant over time. That may well be where we are heading now. It’s hardly a solution to our housing mess but it’s a start. Patrick Commins is Guardian Australia’s economics editor Explore more on these topics Housing Interest rates Reserve Bank of Australia Australian economy Australian politics Tax analysis Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Nearly 1,500 properties bought using first home buyers’ 5% deposit scheme converted into investments 1d ago The RBA says rate rises don’t really increase living costs. But the data is clear – they very much do 1d ago … … comments Homes in Australia are now cheaper – why can’t the government sell this good news story? 2d ago … … comments Australia has had housing crises before: what can we learn from them? 20 Jul 2026 … … comments House prices slide across Australia as Middle East conflict and tax changes begin to bite 4d ago Mortgage offset account errors mean some Australians are owed thousands of dollars. Are you among them? 28 Jul 2026 … … comments Politically engaged – but ‘very much’ worried about buying a home: study reveals young Australians’ anxieties 14 Jul 2026 Fourth Australian interest rate rise more likely if Trump’s Iran conflict not resolved within a week 14 Jul 2026 I noticed a customer review I think might be fake. In Australia, are businesses allowed to do this? 28 Jul 2026 … … comments Banks charged mortgage holders $55m in extra interest after offset account errors, Asic finds 28 Jul 2026 Most viewed Most viewed Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)