Family offices back sustainability startups in July Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Inside Alts Family Offices High-Net-Worth Investing Advisory Board Newsletter Sign-Up Inside Wealth Family offices back clean energy and sustainability startups in July as dealmaking holds steady Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 9:00 AM EDT Updated 2 Hours Ago Hayley Cuccinello @in/hayleycuccinello/ @HCuccinello WATCH LIVE Key Points Private investment firms of the ultrawealthy made 57 direct investments in companies in July, per Fintrx. Clean energy and sustainability startups made up more than 15% of investments, with backers including billionaires John Doerr, Lukas Walton and John Arnold. While many traditional investors have retreated from investing in environmentally minded firms, family offices' interest has endured. Venture capital investor John Doerr during an interview on an episode of "Bloomberg Wealth with David Rubenstein" in Stanford, California, July 22, 2022. David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty Images A version of this article first appeared in CNBC's Inside Wealth newsletter with Robert Frank, a weekly guide to the high-net-worth investor and consumer. Sign up to receive future editions, straight to your inbox. Investment firms of ultrawealthy families showed no signs of slowing down in July despite a turbulent month for markets between a sharp correction and soaring energy prices. Last month, family offices made 57 direct investments in companies, holding steady from June, according to data provided exclusively to CNBC by Fintrx, a private wealth intelligence platform. July's buzziest deal was a $10 billion fundraise for Jeff Bezos' Blue Origin, which included $2 billion from the Amazon billionaire's namesake family office. Bezos Expeditions is the most active family office investor thus far this year, backing five artificial intelligence startups in June alone. While AI startups represented the bulk of the month's dealmaking activity, more than 15% of investments were made in clean energy and sustainability firms. Antora Energy, a thermal battery startup, closed a $550 million Series C round that included venture capital billionaire John Doerr as an investor. Foris Ventures, Doerr's private venture firm, has backed other clean energy firms like Panthalassa, Pacific Fusion and Rondo Energy. Investors' appetite for renewable energy has cooled in recent years due to backlash against environmental, social and governance, or ESG, strategies, as well as the Trump administration's crackdown on climate initiatives and policy. However, the power demands of AI and the fuel crisis caused by the Iran war have rejuvenated interest in green energy. U.S. sustainability funds reported inflows of $3 billion in the second quarter of 2026, ending a streak of 14 quarters of net outflows, according to Morningstar . "Roaring demand for electricity, shifting geopolitics, and disruptive market forces are reshaping the world as we know it. The question is: How will we respond?" Doerr wrote in April, announcing a new action plan for solving the climate crisis. "What was once an opportunity is now an imperative. Only clean energy can meet the surging demand for affordable, durable, and sustainable energy. Only clean energy can deliver abundance that lasts." Legendary energy trader John Arnold backed Hephae Energy Technology, an advanced geothermal drilling startup, in a $17.8 million Series A round that closed in July. "I'm very interested in the geothermal story, the advanced geothermal story, which can unlock a lot more of that resource and provide the baseload power in many locations at what appears to be kind of a market price," Arnold told CNBC's Melissa Lee in February. Get Inside Wealth directly to your inbox The Inside Wealth newsletter by Robert Frank is your weekly guide to high-net-worth investors and the industries that serve them. Subscribe here to get access today . Family offices' interest in renewable energy and sustainability has largely endured even as many traditional investors have retreated. More than half of respondents in a September poll of 346 family offices conducted by Citi Private Bank said they were likely to allocate to sustainable investments in the next five years. This support is likely to continue as the next generation takes the reins, per a Bank of America survey released in November. More than half of family office principals said they expected heirs to maintain or increase their firms' allocation to sustainable or impact investments. Walmart heir Lukas Walton has dedicated his family office, Builders Vision, to advancing environmentalist and sustainability efforts through investing and philanthropy. In July, Builders Vision joined a $43 million Series A for Lydian, which produces synthetic aviation fuel, alongside Grok Ventures, the private investment firm of Atlassian's billionaire CEO Mike Cannon-Brookes. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. More In Inside Wealth Megayacht Amadea sold for $187 million to Dubai billionaire with Trump ties Robert Frank 3 hours ago EU urges Caribbean nations to shut down golden passport programs or face travel restrictions Hayley Cuccinello 4 hours ago More tech millionaires are using donor-advised funds for tax savings and giving Robert Frank Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by