New Zealand capital delights in rare snowfall as southern city residents ski down world’s steepest street | New Zealand | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Snow in the New Zealand city of Dunedin. Photograph: Mark Stevenson View image in fullscreen Snow in the New Zealand city of Dunedin. Photograph: Mark Stevenson New Zealand New Zealand capital delights in rare snowfall as southern city residents ski down world’s steepest street Snow falls in Wellington for the first time in 15 years while snow blanketed Dunedin and Christchurch on the country’s south island Eva Corlett in Wellington Tue 4 Aug 2026 23.27 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 03.44 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Temperatures have plummeted across New Zealand as an Antarctic cold snap hovers over the country, delighting the capital, Wellington, which experienced snow for the first time in 15 years, while giving a southern city’s residents a chance to ski through the streets. The front moved in on Tuesday, with much of the country waking to freezing conditions, frosts, snowfall, hail and bitingly cold wind. Conditions persisted on Wednesday morning, with three South Island locations reaching -9C. Some highways were closed, while parts of the North Island’s east coast woke to thick hail storms. Nine Lives, the feral cat that terrorised New Zealand’s rare ducks, is caught after three years Read more In Wellington , a mix of sleet and snow fell to sea level just after midday on Tuesday, for the first time in 15 years. Office workers rushed out of their buildings to stand in the flurries and elated residents expressed shock and joy as they flooded social media with footage. It was a “winter wonderland”, wrote one social media user. “Snow in Wellington?! Amazing! What a way to turn a day around,” wrote another. “Finding the excitement around this so wholesome. I went to my office window and every window in the building opposite was filled with people watching too,” someone wrote on Reddit. Students in Dunedin , the South Island’s second largest city, were sent home on Tuesday, after snow blanketed the city and many took the opportunity to make the most of the weather. Video footage in local media outlets showed residents snowboarding down the city’s streets, with one daring skier flying down Baldwin Street – recognised by the Guinness World Records as the world’s steepest street . Skier flies down world’s steepest street after snowfall in New Zealand – video “The thing I love about Dunedin is you get half an inch of snow maybe twice a year and everyone loses their minds,” wrote one social media user. Further north, Christchurch’s New Brighton Beach was covered in a dusting of snow and a plane had to abort its landing into the Christchurch International Airport due to wind and rain. View image in fullscreen Snow on Dunedin streets on Tuesday. Photograph: Mark Stevenson Police responded to multiple incidents of cars sliding off icy roads, and urged the public to avoid travel. Temperatures were set to warm on Wednesday but would plunge again overnight, with Thursday likely to be the coldest morning of the year in parts of the country, Metservice, New Zealand’s weather bureau, said. Meanwhile, Transpower, the national grid operator, said it recorded the highest-ever electricity use during Wednesday morning’s peak and warned there may be an energy shortfall on Friday morning. This article was amended on 6 August 2026 to correct that snow was last recorded at sea level in Wellington 15 years ago, not 11. Explore more on these topics New Zealand Snow Asia Pacific Wellington Dunedin news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)