‘Disturbing’: TikTok faces criticism after Perez Hilton livestreams self-harm | Perez Hilton | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters Perez Hilton arrives at BOA Steakhouse grand opening at Grand Canal Shoppes at Venetian Las Vegas on 8 November 2025 in Las Vegas, Nevada. Photograph: Denise Truscello/Getty Images for BOA Steakhouse Las Vegas View image in fullscreen Perez Hilton arrives at BOA Steakhouse grand opening at Grand Canal Shoppes at Venetian Las Vegas on 8 November 2025 in Las Vegas, Nevada. Photograph: Denise Truscello/Getty Images for BOA Steakhouse Las Vegas Perez Hilton ‘Disturbing’: TikTok faces criticism after Perez Hilton livestreams self-harm Many online questioned how long the blogger’s broadcast remained up on the app and shared mental health resources Maya Yang Wed 5 Aug 2026 16.07 EDT Last modified on Wed 5 Aug 2026 16.23 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Social media users have criticized TikTok after the celebrity blogger Perez Hilton livestreamed himself self-harming on the platform, prompting many to question how long the broadcast remained live and others to share mental health resources and encourage those in need to seek help. On Tuesday night, Hilton, 48, livestreamed himself engaging in self-harm as viewers pleaded for him to stop. Shortly after, local authorities responded to his home in Miami, Florida, where he was transported to a nearby hospital for medical treatment. In the aftermath, social media users and influencers have criticized TikTok for hosting the live stream. Instagram user Gina Luciano said : “I find it disgusting and disturbing that TikTok allowed that livestream to go on for as long as it did. It just goes to show you that that app promotes bullying.” Perez Hilton hospitalised after livestreaming self-harm on Tiktok Read more Luciano continued: “Don’t watch that video, don’t watch any clippings of that live stream. It’s not content. It’s not entertainment. It’s a cry for help.” Dana Bowling, another Instagram user said : “Can we file a class action suit against TikTok for exposing adults and teens to that trauma…? No one should be ok with this.” Although several users claimed the live stream lasted more than 30 minutes, a TikTok US spokesperson disputed those reports, saying the broadcast was approximately half that length. The spokesperson said TikTok’s automated moderation systems flagged the live stream within minutes and referred it to the platform’s US moderation team for review. Several subsequent live streams were removed within 90 seconds and Hilton’s account was ultimately banned, the spokesperson added. The company said it also alerted local law enforcement officials and that the live stream violated its community guidelines , which prohibit content depicting or promoting suicide or self-harm. Despite TikTok’s removal of the live stream, screen recordings of the footage have since widely circulated across other platforms including X and Instagram, in turn prompting users to advise others to turn off video autoplays and mute mentions of Hilton. “Assume every Trending Topic link with his name on it will lead you to the video. Don’t click on the link. The video is everywhere right now. To be extra sure, turn video autoplay off (it’s in Settings) and mute the phrase ‘Perez Hilton,’” one person said on Bluesky. Another person similarly said : “PLEASE mute ‘Perez Hilton’ (as a term) if images of self harm, a person in crisis… are bad for you. Please.” Other users have encouraged those struggling with mental health issues to seek support. TV personality and influencer Tefi Pessoa wrote on her Instagram story: “If Perez Hilton’s live triggered you in any way, please call 988. There is help, I promise. I love you.” The Guardian reached out to X for comment. Meta declined to comment. Many users also commented directly on Hilton’s Instagram posts to express their concern, with one writing: “A lot of people care and are concerned for you. Please take care of yourself Perez. Please know that you are loved.” Someone else said: “Perez I hope you are stabilized and doing alright now, that video has us all concerned. Please heal up.” On Wednesday afternoon, Hilton’s team and family released a statement confirming that Hilton is receiving medical care. “Many of you have reached out with concern for Perez, and we are incredibly grateful for the overwhelming outpouring of love, support, and prayers. We can confirm that Perez is receiving medical care, and our family’s focus right now is on his well-being. We kindly ask that you respect Perez’s privacy, as well as the privacy of his family, during this difficult time,” the statement said. “If and when we are able to share any updates, we will do so with everyone as soon as we can. Thank you for your compassion, understanding, and continued support,” it added. Hilton, whose real name is Mario Lavandeira, rose to fame in the early 2000s when he started PerezHilton.com, a celebrity gossip blog with aggressive commentary that many, including celebrities, likened to online bullying. Born in Miami to Cuban parents, Hilton graduated from New York University before working in a variety of roles, including a brief stint as an actor and later as a publicist, before finding success as a celebrity blogger under a moniker inspired by Paris Hilton. By 2007, the New York Times reported that Hilton was spending 17 hours daily publishing an average of 30 blogposts every day. At the time, his website was charging $9,000 a week for a single advertisement, and as much as $45,000 for its most expensive ad package, the outlet added. Speaking to the Guardian in 2014, Hilton described himself as being “sassy without being nasty”. In his 2021 memoir, the father of three reflected on his earlier work, writing: “I have a ton of regrets, particularly because I now see that I never needed to be so mean or cruel.” Earlier this year, Hilton revealed that he underwent “emergency surgery” for deep vein thrombosis after doctors discovered the condition following a three-week hospitalization due to sepsis. Reflecting on the experience, Hilton said God “presented himself to me”, adding: “I’ve been crying but happy tears … because this is just …so crazy. I’ve been reading the Bible, and so much of what is said here I had already been thinking of. It’s just overwhelming in the best, most beautiful way.” In the US, you can call or text the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline at 988 or chat at 988lifeline.org . In the UK and Ireland, Samaritans can be contacted on freephone 116 123. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is 13 11 14. Other international helplines can be found at befrienders.org Explore more on these topics Perez Hilton Mental health Miami TikTok Social media news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Unprecedented images may explain one of greatest mysteries of the sun Mexican influencer shot dead while streaming live on social media One Night Only review – sex is legal for 12 hours a year in bizarre romcom Film posters for The Mummy banned from public display in UK The Leipzig drone bomb marks a dangerous escalation for Europe Most viewed Most viewed Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)