Europe heat wave strains energy and wildfire response : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Europe heat wave strains energy and wildfire response Europe's heat wave exposes buried history and new threats — Nazi-era wrecks emerge from the Danube, nuclear reactors face cooling risks, and Greece battles deadly wildfires. Europe Europe's heat wave fuels drought, wildfires and fears about energy supplies Updated August 4, 2026 12:37 PM ET Originally published August 4, 2026 12:37 PM ET By Robbie Griffiths A man walks on a sandbank by the wreckage of a WWII German warship, which emerged during the drought in front of Djerdap II, a large dam on the Danube River between Romania and Serbia near Prahovo on Aug. 4, 2026. Darko Vojinovic/AP hide caption toggle caption Darko Vojinovic/AP LONDON — As Europe endures a relentless heat wave, the Danube's historic lows are disrupting nuclear power operations and revealing the far-reaching impacts of the continent's climate crisis. Hungary came close to a forced shutdown of its only nuclear power plant overnight, Prime Minister Péter Magyar said on Tuesday morning, as low water levels in the Danube river threaten the country's energy supply. "Around 1:30 a.m. we were a few millimeters away from completely shutting down the Paks Power Plant, but then the water level stopped falling and by morning it had risen 1.5 centimeters. The last turbine is currently operating safely," Magyar said . A view of Hungary's Paks Nuclear Power Plant from the Danube embankment in Dunaszentbenedek on July 31, 2026. Record-low water levels on the Danube, driven by extreme heat and drought, have threatened the plant's cooling system and highlighted Europe's worsening climate crisis. Janos Kummer/Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Janos Kummer/Getty Images On Monday, Romanian authorities conducted a controlled explosion in the river to redirect cooling water to its sole operational nuclear plant, in images captured by AFP . Low water levels had already forced Romania to close two nuclear reactors. Sponsor Message A nuclear power plant in Bulgaria has so far not reduced its capacity , despite low water levels in the Danube. However, last week, a cruise ship in Bulgaria was forced to evacuate almost 200 tourists after it went aground near the port city of Vidin , according to the Associated Press. The Danube's retreat has also exposed World War II relics. In Serbia, drought has brought dozens of Nazi-era German warships, scuttled during the 1944 retreat, back into view — a stark reminder of how dramatically the river has receded. An aerial view shows burned forest after a wildfire near Porto Germeno, northwest of Athens, Greece, Tuesday, Aug. 4, 2026. Petros Giannakouris/AP hide caption toggle caption Petros Giannakouris/AP Wildfires Weeks of hot weather have led to ideal conditions for wildfires in Europe, which have been particularly destructive in Greece in recent days. In the region of Western Attica, close to Athens, firefighters aimed to take advantage of a break in high winds to control a fire that has been burning since last week. On Monday, the flames had jumped containment lines to stop the fire from spreading. Greek state media outlet ERT News reported on Tuesday morning that over 500 firefighters were tackling the blaze, including multiple helicopters. Fire department deputy spokesman Yiannis Artopios told the outlet that conditions were constantly changing, making the flames difficult to tackle. On Sunday, two helicopters tackling the Western Attica fire collided in midair, killing two crew members. Last week, two firefighters died fighting a fire on Crete, while a third was killed on the Peloponnesea region in southern Greece according to the Greek fire service. Sponsor Message In France, many of the major wildfires which raged last week are now under control, though maps showed some active fires in the southeast on Tuesday. Over the weekend most of the population of the southwestern Gironde region, near Bordeaux, were allowed to return home. However, the fire has led to some unexpected discoveries: what are thought to be unexploded munitions from World War II. On Monday, Martial Zaninetti, the mayor of the commune of Le Porge, told French media outlet France Info that bomb disposal experts had been directed to the area. A man splashes water on a horse to cool it off next to a bank of sand on the Danube River, as usually submerged areas are exposed due to extreme low levels of the water following an extended period of drought in Roseti, Romania, Wednesday, July 29, 2026. Andreea Alexandru/AP hide caption toggle caption Andreea Alexandru/AP Health warnings The record-breaking high temperatures have prompted official health warnings. In a heat wave bulletin published on Tuesday, the Italian Health Ministry said that 25 of the country's 27 major cities are on "red alert." The ministry said all Italian cities would be elevated to red alert by Thursday. On Sunday, the United Kingdom's Health Security Agency (UKHSA) issued heat health alerts for eight regions of England for the first half of the week, warning that rising temperatures may increase health risks, particularly for vulnerable groups. Record heat continues to be recorded across the continent. Overnight into Tuesday, the Czech Republic recorded its highest overnight temperature ever — more than 82 degrees Fahrenheit or 27.9 degrees Celsius — in the eastern town of Bystřice pod Hostýnem, the local media outlet CT24 reported . Europe wildfires Hungary Romania Greece Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR State of the World from NPR Why Russia’s strikes on Ukraine are more intense; Germany’s song of the summer Ukraine invasion — explained The soaring demand for Patriot missiles, from the Middle East to Ukraine Europe Overnight Russian barrage kills nine in Kyiv, as air defense struggle with U.S. continues Europe Spain's Pedro Sánchez was a hero of migrants. After Ceuta, he faces his biggest challenge State of the World from NPR Abandoned island in Venice lagoon saved as green nature retreat Europe Thousands in France allowed to return home as Europe tackles wildfires and heatwave Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org National Guard deployments A veteran was detained by the National Guard in her front yard. Now she's suing Politics 5 states have primary elections on Tuesday. These are the races to watch Trump's Terms 'Useless, junk prosecutions': legal analyst on DOJ's Reflecting Pool case National Authorities arrest an arson suspect in connection with wildfires in Spokane Law She protested ICE raids. Then agents showed up at her door News Capital One says it closed Trump Organization accounts over money-laundering concerns NPR Editors' Picks Business SpaceX's revenue rises as its once-soaring stock price drifts back to Earth My Unsung Hero A volunteer's unexpected advice changed how she faced cancer News Senate Democrats say banks turned blind eye to suspicious moves by Jeffrey Epstein Book Reviews 'Country People' is a silly, satisfying midsummer romp The Book Ahead 13 new books in August will get you through the dog days of summer Global Health They're a world leader in using drones for healthcare. But drones can't do it all Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices