SpaceX faces test as shares unlock allowing early investors cash out Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech SpaceX stock could face further pressure as first batch of shares unlock since IPO Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 8:00 AM EDT Updated Thu, Aug 6 2026 11:19 AM EDT Lora Kolodny @in/lorakolodny/ WATCH LIVE Key Points The first post lockup period expires for SpaceX on Thursday, turning over 911 million shares into liquid stock for early investors. Wall Street is watching to see whether SpaceX insiders start dumping stock at the first opportunity. Jessie Bates III, a safety for the Atlanta Falcons, told CNBC he plans to sell 100% of his stake, which he acquired for $150,000 in 2022. In this article SPCX Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT SpaceX founder Elon Musk addresses members of the media during a press conference announcing new developments of the Crew Dragon reusable spacecraft, at SpaceX headquarters in Hawthorne, California, Oct. 10, 2019. Philip Pacheco | Afp | Getty Images Early SpaceX investors will have their first chance to cash out a portion of their holdings on Thursday as initial lockup restrictions expire, potentially putting pressure on a stock that's already more than 50% off its high from mid-June. Just over 911 million SpaceX shares will be available for trading, representing about 7% of shares outstanding. It's more than the 639 million shares that were sold in the company's record IPO. Elon Musk's reusable rocket maker initially saw its stock price shoot up to $150 as it hit the Nasdaq in June before surpassing $225 days later. But it's been a rocky eight weeks since then, with the shares closing on Wednesday at a low of $108.27. The stock plunged after SpaceX said in its first earnings report late Tuesday that capital expenditures were more than twice as high as revenue. Greg Martin, co-founder of Rainmaker Securities, told CNBC in an email that the stock's "near-term path" may be more affected by the lockup lifting than any fundamentals or strategy. And more float is coming. On Aug. 20, another 319 million shares could unlock, according to the prospectus , followed by roughly 700 million in September and close to that number in October. Musk, the world's richest person, is by far the biggest holder of SpaceX stock with more than 6 billion shares. His holdings are locked up until June 2027. Regarding the first batch of unlocked shares, analysts at Mizuho noted in a report on Wednesday that, "While the step-up in potential supply is meaningful, we think investors should understand that shares becoming eligible for sale does not mean the full tranche will be offered into the market." One investor looking to sell is Jessie Bates III, a safety for the Atlanta Falcons. Bates, 29, said he paid about $150,000 in 2022 for shares at a valuation of $127 billion. SpaceX is currently valued at $1.43 trillion, potentially making Bates' stake worth over $1.5 million. In an emailed statement sent by his publicist, Bates said he plans to sell all of his shares to "lock in gains." Michael Ledo manages Bates' investments as CEO of the RISE Family Office. Ledo said Bates' portfolio has also included stakes in pre-IPO companies OpenAI, Anthropic, Databricks, Cart.com and Turo. RISE says it focuses on "helping athletes build lasting wealth, become business leaders and build strong families." Bates said via his publicist that if anything could convince him to buy again, it may be more strategic acquisitions that could open up growth opportunities. In February, SpaceX merged with Musk's xAI in a deal that valued the combined entity at $1.25 trillion. And prior to the IPO, SpaceX agreed to buy Cursor for $60 billion in a transaction expected to close this quarter. WATCH: SpaceX sings on soaring AI costs watch now VIDEO 4:09 04:09 SpaceX sinks on soaring AI costs: Kevin Simpson outlines his strategy Halftime Report Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by