Demand soars for U.S. Patriot missiles, from Mideast to Ukraine : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Demand soars for U.S. Patriot missiles, from Mideast to Ukraine The U.S. and its partners depend on Patriot interceptors to shoot down incoming ballistic missiles. But Russia and Iran are firing their weapons at rates far higher than Patriots can be produced. Special Series Ukraine invasion — explained The roots of Russia's invasion of Ukraine go back decades and run deep. The current conflict is more than one country fighting to take over another; it is — in the words of one U.S. official — a shift in "the world order." Here are some helpful stories to make sense of it all. The soaring demand for Patriot missiles, from the Middle East to Ukraine August 4, 2026 2:01 PM ET By Greg Myre , Tom Bowman Ukrainian Air Force F-16 fighter jets fly over a Patriot air and missile defense system in an undisclosed location in Ukraine, on Aug. 4, 2024. Efrem Lukatsky/AP hide caption toggle caption Efrem Lukatsky/AP KYIV, Ukraine, and WASHINGTON — Russia's massive air assault against Ukraine before dawn on Saturday included 27 ballistic missiles, many pounding the capital Kyiv, killing nine people and wounding more than 30. The attack was larger than most, though Russia carries out airstrikes almost every night. Europe Overnight Russian barrage kills nine in Kyiv, as air defense struggle with U.S. continues What made this notable was Ukraine's inability to defend itself. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the military shot down just one of those Russian missiles. "Only one ballistic missile was intercepted, simply because there are no interceptors for the Patriot systems," the Ukrainian leader wrote on social media . Zelenskyy was referring to the U.S.-made Patriot air defense system that is the country's only reliable way to defend against Russian ballistic missile attacks. Ukraine has been largely helpless in similar Russian onslaughts in recent weeks. Sponsor Message Europe Ukraine's Zelenskyy makes urgent plea for missiles after deadly Russian attack Ukraine faces the most urgent need for a fresh supply of Patriot interceptors. But the U.S. also has concerns about its own stockpiles of Patriots, which have declined dramatically during the war in Iran. In addition, U.S. allies in the Gulf are also wondering when they will be able to get more Patriots if there's renewed fighting with Iran and they exhaust their current inventories. U.S. stockpiles shrink In June, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth called news reports about a shortage of Patriot missiles a "manufactured story." However, two months earlier, Hegseth acknowledged that replenishing missile stockpiles could take "months and years." Ukraine invasion — explained Ukraine negotiator: 'We have the upper hand' The Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington said in July that the U.S. had more than 2,300 Patriots before President Trump launched the Iran war on Feb. 28. Today, the number is around 800. The exact number of Patriot interceptors is classified, but a U.S. official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue, told NPR that the CSIS figures appeared accurate. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth and President Trump attend the dignified transfer of four U.S. service members recently killed in the Middle East, July 22, at Dover Air Force Base, Del. Julia Demaree Nikhinson/AP hide caption toggle caption Julia Demaree Nikhinson/AP Sources & Methods Trump's options dwindle / Inside Iran / U.S. arsenal depleted? The U.S. military introduced the Patriot system in the 1980s and it received its first big test in the 1991 Gulf War when the U.S. used it to defend against Iraqi Scud missiles. Now, nearly 20 countries allied with the U.S. — in Europe, Asia and the Middle East — have the Patriot system and depend on it to defend against ballistic missiles, one of the most powerful conventional weapons. However, the Russians and the Iranians have been firing ballistic missiles in numbers that outpace the rate at which Patriot interceptors are being produced. Sponsor Message Middle East The real cost of the war with Iran Raytheon (now RTX) makes the Patriot missile battery, as well as the missiles it uses. Lockheed Martin also makes missiles for the Patriot, which run around $4 million each. Together they have been making fewer than 1,000 a year, which seemed to be enough until demand surged with the Russia-Ukraine and the U.S.-Iran wars. The two American companies plan to ramp up production, though it's not clear how long it will take to replace — or perhaps increase — inventories worldwide. Ukraine appeals for help Ukraine began receiving the Patriot air defense batteries three years ago and has used them effectively to limit the damage caused by Russian attacks. Ukraine views the Patriot as critical to its defense and has repeatedly asked for both more of the Patriot systems and the missiles that go with them. Ukraine invasion — explained Inside a secretive Ukrainian team launching deep drone strikes at Russia "The Patriot system has really been the main ballistic missile defense system. It's a really big stockpile problem. I don't know if there's any immediate solution," said Rob Lee, a U.S. military analyst living in Ukraine and working with the Foreign Policy Research Institute of Philadelphia. Zelenskyy is now making an urgent plea for other countries to send some of their Patriot missiles to Ukraine. He says they shouldn't be stockpiled for "hypothetical scenarios, but used here and now, to contain and stop the Russian war." So far, no country has publicly pledged to send any more missiles to Ukraine. A pledge by Trump, who then backtracked At last month's NATO summit in Turkey, Trump told Zelenskyy he'd give Ukraine the license to build its own Patriots . State of the World from NPR The U.S. will allow Ukraine to produce Patriot missiles, will it change the war? After they met last week at the White House, Zelenskyy headed straight to talks with Lockheed Martin to discuss moving the process along. But last Friday, Trump backpedaled. "We have to be very careful about letting somebody build them," Trump said. "You have to be very judicious, but you have to be very careful. Now, we have not agreed to that. We're talking about it. But it's a hard thing to give away that kind of technology." Rep. Don Bacon, a Nebraska Republican and former Air Force general who is a member of the House Armed Services Committee, said he still supports allowing Ukraine to build its own Patriots. Sponsor Message "While 70 percent of Americans support Ukraine, the policies of the White House make them appear to be in the 30 percent. Enabling the Ukrainians to build the Patriot would have helped relieve the shortage of interceptors we face today," Bacon told Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty earlier this week. "I wish the president was more of a Reagan or Churchill when it comes to Russia." But even if Ukraine gets a license to build Patriots, it would likely take several years before those missiles came off the production line. That's because of a stretched supply chain for missile components, according to U.S. officials and analysts. Germany and Japan are the only countries that have been granted licenses by the U.S. to make Patriots. The U.S. has another highly advanced missile interceptor, called THAAD (Terminal High Altitude Area Defense). The U.S. has only shared this system with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. The U.S. has also used many of these missiles in the Iran war. The CSIS report said the U.S. stockpiles for THAAD missiles went from around 450 before the Iran war to about 250 today. Greg Myre reported from Kyiv and Tom Bowman from Washington. Russia-Ukraine war Ukraine Russia Iran U.S. war in Iran U.S. military Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices