Peloton (PTON) Q4 2026 earnings Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Retail Peloton posts first-ever annual net profit, but shares drop as outlook disappoints Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 7:05 AM EDT Updated 2 Hours Ago Gabrielle Fonrouge @in/gabrielle-fonrouge @fonrougegab WATCH LIVE Key Points Peloton posted its first annual profit ever in fiscal 2026 under CEO Peter Stern, capping off years of efforts to get costs in line with sales. The connected fitness company is expecting gross margin and adjusted EBITDA to grow in fiscal 2027, but said it anticipates sales will slide as it laps price increases it implemented last fall. "This was the year where Peloton sort of grew up," Stern told CNBC in an interview. A pedestrian walks by a Peloton store in Palo Alto, California, on May 8, 2024. Justin Sullivan | Getty Images Peloton delivered its first full year of net profit and operating income in fiscal 2026, but said it expects sales to fall in the coming fiscal year as it begins to lap price increases on its hardware and subscription plans. Peloton shares tumbled nearly 13% in morning trading Thursday as the outlook disappointed investors. Even so, Peloton CEO Peter Stern highlighted the major strides the company has made in becoming profitable. "This was the year where Peloton sort of grew up," Stern told CNBC in an interview, calling fiscal 2026 a "landmark" year for the company financially. "That solid foundation positions us for what we need to do to get to long-term growth to deliver on our strategy of becoming a connected wellness company and puts us in really our strongest position to date." In the year ended June 30, Peloton posted net income of $63.2 million, up from a loss of $118.9 million in the year-ago period, helped in part by the brand's decision to raise prices last fall. Looking ahead to fiscal 2027, the company expects another year of positive free cash flow. It also anticipates gross margin and adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization will grow compared with the prior year. Aside from its fiscal year, Peloton issued mixed results for its fiscal fourth quarter. Here's how the company performed compared with what Wall Street was anticipating, based on a survey of analysts by LSEG: Earnings per share: 13 cents vs. 13 cents expected Revenue: $608 million vs. $598 million expected Peloton's reported net income for the three-month period that ended June 30 was $61.6 million, or 13 cents per share, compared with $21.6 million, or 5 cents per share, a year earlier. Sales rose to $607.7 million, up slightly from $606.9 million a year earlier. Though it raised prices last fall, Peloton's annual sales still dropped in fiscal 2026 compared with the year-ago period. In the current fiscal year 2027, Peloton said it expects sales to fall nearly 4% to between $2.3 billion and $2.4 billion, worse than the $2.42 billion analysts had been looking for, according to LSEG. It shows that while Peloton has made enormous strides in becoming a stronger, more profitable business with more say over its destiny, it's still struggling to sell its pricey hardware and keep subscribers engaged and paying. "We are gradually improving the trajectory of our gross adds and our connected fitness sales while we're keeping churn flat," said Stern. "We're not at the stage yet where we turn the net of all those things positive, but we're getting better and better so that's basically the story of [fiscal year] '27. We're a work in progress on that one but the trajectory is getting better in '27 than it's been in a long time." Peloton recently hired Sarah Robb O'Hagan as its new chief content and member development officer, succeeding company veteran Jen Cotter, as Peloton looks to stabilize churn, or subscribers dropping off memberships. In the role, Robb O'Hagan will focus on accelerating innovation and driving engagement and loyalty, said Stern. "We've kicked off a major project under Sarah focusing on member development. This looks at everything from onboarding through to the experience of live classes," said Stern. "The other thing that Sarah's done is at the same time that we're adding new instructors, she has re-signed contracts with a significant portion of our existing instructors. So we're continuing to deliver on what our members love about Peloton while also sort of challenging them to broaden their experience," he added. Peloton is pursuing a number of new revenue streams under Stern. It recently announced a partnership with Spotify and is working to launch its first-ever commercial Bike and Tread this fall, which will allow Peloton to expand into commercial gyms. Stern couldn't yet say which gyms the company might be partnering with as it just finalized pricing on the machines, but said there's been "plenty of interest." "We're having lots of conversations, but we're not actually making sales yet," said Stern. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by