The Trump administration has filed 31 lawsuits seeking states' voter data. Here's where they stand. - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Politics The Trump administration has filed 31 lawsuits seeking states' voter data. Here's where they stand. By Melissa Quinn Melissa Quinn Senior Reporter, Politics Melissa Quinn is a senior reporter for CBSNews.com, where she covers U.S. politics, with a focus on the Supreme Court and federal courts. Read Full Bio Melissa Quinn Updated on: August 6, 2026 / 11:16 AM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Washington — President Trump's administration has mounted efforts in nearly all 50 states to obtain their complete voter rolls containing sensitive information about registered voters in their states. The Justice Department has argued that the information is needed to ensure states are complying with two federal voting laws, the Help America Vote Act and the National Voter Registration Act, which aim to ensure states have programs in place for maintaining accurate voter rolls. The administration sent letters to most of the states last year seeking unredacted electronic copies of their statewide voter registration lists, which include voters' birthdates, addresses, partial Social Security numbers and driver's license numbers. A number of states have turned over publicly available versions of their voter rolls, but have declined to provide their complete lists. In response, the Justice Department has filed lawsuits against 30 states and the District of Columbia in an effort to force them to hand over the voter data. So far, the Trump administration has lost 21 of those cases. Federal judges have rejected the Justice Department's lawsuits for unredacted voter rolls from: Arizona California Colorado Connecticut District of Columbia Illinois Kentucky Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island Virginia West Virginia Wisconsin A federal judge dismissed the Justice Department's initial case against Georgia because it was filed in the wrong court, and government lawyers have since refiled it. The Justice Department voluntarily dismissed its lawsuit against Oklahoma after the state agreed to turn over its voter registration list. The other cases remain pending. Those are in Delaware, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Minnesota, Nevada, Utah, Vermont and Washington. The Justice Department has appealed most of the decisions dismissing its cases. So far, one appeals court, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit, has upheld a lower court decision rejecting the administration's attempt to obtain Michigan's voter rolls. The Trump administration's bids to gain access to states' unredacted voter registration lists are part of the president's efforts to exert more power over federal elections. Mr. Trump has signed two executive orders aimed at U.S. elections, though both have been blocked by the courts. The first executive order, signed last year, would require documentary proof of citizenship in order to register to vote. The second, announced in March, tightens the rules for mail-in voting and requires the Department of Homeland Security and U.S. Postal Service to compile and maintain lists of U.S. citizens who are eligible to vote. Mr. Trump is also pushing Congress to enact a package of voting regulations called the SAVE America Act, which would significantly curtail mail-in voting and impose new voter ID requirements. The president has long taken aim at mail-in voting and claimed it leads to widespread fraud, though he has not put forth evidence in support of those claims. He has also claimed that Democratic states allow noncitizens to vote in U.S. elections. It is a federal crime for noncitizens to vote. More from CBS News FAA probing Marine One safety incident around National Airport Trump issues new executive orders aimed at birthright citizenship Trump denies U.S. running low on some munitions, says vast resupplies being made White House declassifies info on secret FBI probe into Trump's firing of Comey Go deeper with The Free Press The Trump Administration’s Latest Attack on Free Speech Exclusive: DHS Secretary Tried to Cancel 250th July 4 Celebration over Weather Concerns, Infuriating Trump © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Legal analysis on who decides election rules Legal analysis on whether states or the federal government decide election rules 03:47 Legal analysis on whether states or the federal government decide election rules (03:47) Trump issues new executive orders aimed at birthright citizenship FAA probing Marine One safety incident around National Airport Trump denies U.S. running low on some munitions, says vast resupplies being made The Trump Administration’s Latest Attack on Free Speech Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue