Abdul El-Sayed wins Michigan Democratic Senate primary Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Politics & Policy Abdul El-Sayed wins Michigan Democratic Senate primary as voters pivot to the left Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 11:08 AM EDT Updated 3 Hours Ago Justin Papp @in/justin-papp @justinjpapp1 WATCH LIVE Key Points Michigan Democratic voters chose former public health official Abdul El-Sayed over Rep. Haley Stevens as their nominee for the open Senate seat that's a must-win for both political parties. The race in the swing state has been one of the most closely-watched of this year's election, with the progressive El-Sayed and the more moderate Stevens trading blows over AI data centers and U.S. foreign policy. Michigan voters also chose challenger Donavan McKinney over incumbent Rep. Shri Thanedar in a closely watched Democratic House primary. Abdul El-Sayed, US Democratic Senate candidate from Michigan, arrives to speak during a primary election night watch party at The Majestic Theatre in Detroit, Michigan, US, early on Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2026. Sarah Rice | Bloomberg | Getty Images Abdul El-Sayed , the progressive, anti-establishment Democrat running for Senate in Michigan, defeated Rep. Haley Stevens in one of the most closely watched and impactful primary elections of the 2026 midterm election. El-Sayed beat Stevens by 1 percentage point as The Associated Press called the race Wednesday morning with 99% of votes counted. El-Sayed had captured 48.5% of the votes to Stevens' 47.5%. Mallory McMorrow, who had suspended her campaign a month before the primary, received 4% of the votes. The results set up El-Sayed to face former Republican Rep. Mike Rogers in the general election this November. El-Sayed challenged Rogers to five debates him to five debates in his victory speech Wednesday morning. "We took on a machine," El-Sayed said in the speech. "What we showed is that the power of our many is greater than the power of their money." El-Sayed, a former public health official, and Stevens , a more moderate Democrat, were vying for the seat Democratic Sen. Gary Peters will vacate at the end of this Congress. The result could help decide control of the Senate for the next Congress and influence the direction of the Democratic Party in the coming years. El-Sayed's win is a boon for the left flank of the Democratic Party, which has recently scored upsets in New York and Colorado. He had notched endorsements from progressive heavyweights like Sen. Bernie Sanders , I-Vt., and Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez , D-N.Y., and came into Tuesday with a polling edge , though the race was much closer than projections indicated it would be. Stevens' campaign told voters she had the best chance to beat Rogers in November. Michigan is seen as a must-win for Democrats if they want to retake a Senate majority. It's also a crucial seat for Republicans if they are to retain control of the chamber. Her supporters included Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer and former Michigan Sen. Debbie Stabenow , both Democratic heavyweights in the state. Investment firm Piper Sandler in a note to clients called El-Sayed's victory "a major setback for Democratic hopes of winning back the Senate by choosing the more liberal candidate. "Overall, the election environment looks very challenging for Republicans, but Democratic primary voters, especially in critical Senate races in Maine and Michigan, may have saved the Republican majority in the Senate," the firm wrote. On the heels of El-Sayed's likely victory, the firm raised the odds of Republicans keeping a Senate majority from 55% to 60%. Republicans quickly set out to paint El-Sayed as an extreme liberal. "The choice this November is simple: common sense or complete insanity," Rogers said in a statement on Wednesday. "Abdul isn't just another liberal. He's an extremist." Michigan is a bellwether state in national elections. President Donald Trump won there by 1.4 percentage points in 2024 after losing to Joe Biden by 2.8 percentage points in 2020. In 2016, Trump won Michigan by less than a third of a percentage point. The results of Tuesday's Senate primary will provide a window into how voters are feeling nationally two years before the next presidential election. Read more CNBC politics coverage ChatGPT dominates early AI spending in Congress as lawmakers weigh regulation Trump slams Pirro after she moves to drop Reflecting Pool vandalism case Analysis: Markets heard a dovish Warsh. Fed chairman's words suggest a rate hike "When she got elected to the Congress, she flipped a seat from a Republican to a Democrat. She knows how to beat Republicans" Peters said of Stevens , who came to the House in 2019, at a campaign event on Monday. "We have to win in November. We have to keep Michigan blue. Haley Stevens is the person to do that." What started as a three-way race winnowed to two in July when McMorrow, a state senator who tried to stake out a middle ground between Stevens and El-Sayed, dropped out. McMorrow, in an attempt at fostering unity within the party, endorsed El-Sayed after he took a commanding lead in the results. "Take it from me — this was a brutal primary. But whatever differences there were between the candidates in this race, those differences are nothing compared to the contrast in November," McMorrow said in a statement. "Donald Trump and Mike Rogers are banking on all of us being too bruised, too proud, and too hurt to come back together to beat them. Let's prove them wrong." Stevens on Wednesday stuck a similar note, offering her support for El-Sayed against Rogers. "Donald Trump and Mike Rogers want us to come out of this primary tired and divided, so their billionaire backers can come in and let multimillionaire Mike Rogers walk away with this Senate seat," Stevens said in a statement . The contest between El-Sayed and Stevens had been tense at times, as the two candidates split over issues like AI data centers and U.S. foreign policy, especially aid to Israel. "If you believe like me that rather than fund the genocide perpetrated by a foreign government, we better build schools right here in Grand Rapids, then we better put ourselves in democracy," El-Sayed said at a recent campaign stop . Representative Haley Stevens, a Democrat from Michigan and US Senate candidate, arrives to speak during a primary election night watch party in Detroit, Michigan, US, early on Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2026. Emily Elconin | Bloomberg | Getty Images Stevens, meanwhile, cast El-Sayed as an extremist and as the GOP's preferred candidate this November. "You see the Republicans, they're propping up my Democratic opponent. The Republican in this race, he said … my opponent is going to make it easier for him to win. Well, I don't plan on making anything easier for these guys," Stevens said on MS NOW. Downballot in Michigan, incumbent Democratic Rep. Shri Thanedar lost his primary to Donavan McKinney, a member of the Michigan House of Representatives. McKinney will face Republican Taras Nykoriak in the general election in the 13th congressional district in the Detroit area that is considered a safe Democratic seat. The Michigan primary came as Republicans, including Trump, are increasingly calling their Democratic adversaries communists and raising alarms about the extreme policies of the Democratic Socialists of America. Neither Stevens nor El-Sayed are members of DSA. El-Sayed, while running to the left of Stevens, rejects the socialist label. Still, Trump in the Oval Office on Monday characterized the race as a battle between far-left ideologies. "Well, you have a very interesting group. Who I'm really voting for is Mike Rogers, because I think he's going to be a great senator," Trump told reporters after being asked who he is voting for in Michigan, a state where he doesn't vote. "You have a communist versus a socialist. That's the way I look at it … it looks like the communist is leading. We're talking about the Democrat primary. But for the Republican you have a very good man, and he should be able to win." — Garrett Downs and Luke Fountain contributed to this report. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by