Inside city gripped by deadly protests in Pakistan-administered Kashmir - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Asia China India Inside city gripped by deadly protests in Pakistan-administered Kashmir Inside city gripped by deadly protests in Pakistan-administered Kashmir Close Dozens of people have been killed in clashes between security officials and protesters across Pakistan-administered Kashmir over the last two months, following a crackdown that left the city of Rawalakot mostly sealed off from the world. Leading the demonstrations is the Joint Awami Action Committee (JAAC), which says it is protesting for rights including healthcare and electricity. Authorities say the JAAC is trying to disrupt the current regional elections, that the group is armed, and will not be allowed to leave Rawalakot. The JAAC was banned in June; they have been labelled foreign-funded terrorists by the government. They reject this characterisation, saying they are peaceful and - though funded from the Pakistan-administered Kashmir community abroad - not sponsored by India. The BBC is the first media to gain access to the city and speak to people on the ground about what is going on at the heart of the protests. Pakistan correspondent Caroline Davies reports from Islamabad. More on this story Subsection Asia Published 3 August Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing Related topics Kashmir tensions Follow Kashmir tensions close panel You are now following Kashmir tensions Updates from your News topics will appear in My News and in a collection on the News homepage . Kashmir Follow Kashmir close panel You are now following Kashmir Updates from your News topics will appear in My News and in a collection on the News homepage . Pakistan Follow Pakistan close panel You are now following Pakistan Updates from your News topics will appear in My News and in a collection on the News homepage . India-Pakistan relations Follow India-Pakistan relations close panel You are now following India-Pakistan relations Updates from your News topics will appear in My News and in a collection on the News homepage . Read description Editor's recommendations Inside city gripped by deadly protests in Pakistan-administered Kashmir. Video, 00:02:12 Inside city gripped by deadly protests in Pakistan-administered Kashmir Subsection Asia Published 3 August 2:12 Up Next. Watch: Stargazers around the world glimpse 'Blood Moon' lunar eclipse. Video, 00:01:04 Watch: Stargazers around the world glimpse 'Blood Moon' lunar eclipse Subsection Science & Environment Published 2 days ago Up Next 1:04 Tracing the deadly path of the Nepal-Tibet flash flood. Video, 00:02:01 Tracing the deadly path of the Nepal-Tibet flash flood Subsection Asia Published 3 days ago 2:01 Worker films moment he escapes deadly Nepal floods. Video, 00:00:51 Worker films moment he escapes deadly Nepal floods Subsection Asia Published 3 days ago 0:51 What caused the Nepal-Tibet flash floods? Video, 00:00:59 What caused the Nepal-Tibet flash floods? Subsection Asia Published 3 days ago 0:59 BBC visits hospital in Kathmandu as families wait for news. Video, 00:01:55 BBC visits hospital in Kathmandu as families wait for news Subsection Asia Published 4 days ago 1:55 How Dolly Parton became a fashion icon. Video, 00:01:12 How Dolly Parton became a fashion icon Subsection Culture Published 4 days ago 1:12 Aerial footage shows flash flood on Nepal-Tibet border. Video, 00:00:34 Aerial footage shows flash flood on Nepal-Tibet border Subsection Asia Published 4 days ago 0:34 Dolly Parton: The life of an iconic country singer. Video, 00:00:10 Dolly Parton: The life of an iconic country singer Subsection US & Canada Published 5 days ago 0:10 Is UK's Storm Shadow missile a game changer for Ukraine? Video, 00:01:37 Is UK's Storm Shadow missile a game changer for Ukraine? Subsection Europe Published 6 days ago 1:37 Robot boxing, football and sprinting at World Humanoid Games. Video, 00:01:24 Robot boxing, football and sprinting at World Humanoid Games Subsection Asia Published 23 August 1:24 Watch: Moment humanoid robot beats Usain Bolt's 100m record. Video, 00:00:46 Watch: Moment humanoid robot beats Usain Bolt's 100m record Subsection Asia Published 22 August 0:46 Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.