Mumbai Indians: What takeover means for The Hundred's MI London - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland Quizzes News Feeds Help & FAQs Cricket Scores & Fixtures Tables England Men England Women Counties The Hundred All Teams How Mumbai Indians takeover has affected MI London & Surrey By Adwaidh Rajan BBC Sport journalist Published 3 August 2026 The name has changed, the colours have changed and much of the conversation around the franchise has changed too. Investment from Indian Premier League (IPL) side Mumbai Indians into Oval Invincibles led to The Hundred's most successful team rebranding itself as MI London and bringing the multi-billionaire Ambani family's cricket empire to The Oval. Here, BBC Sport takes a look at what has changed, what has stayed the same and what the future holds for the franchise. 'We haven't looked at the contract once' Image source, Getty Images Image caption, MI London won three consecutive Hundred men's titles as Oval Invincibles Reliance Industries Limited, chaired by Mukesh Ambani, bought a 49% stake in Oval Invincibles in a deal worth about £60m in January 2025, among the first sale of teams in The Hundred . However, Surrey chief executive Steve Elworthy said their relationship with India's wealthiest family began long before the bidding process got under way. "They've been huge supporters of The Hundred for a number of years," the former South Africa cricketer told BBC Sport. "They used to take our boardroom box every August to watch The Hundred when we were still Invincibles." Early conversations convinced Elworthy and his team they had found the right partner in the Ambanis. "The first meeting we had, we spent about 45 minutes talking about just cricket," Elworthy said. At about £120m, MI London are the most valuable of the franchises after their London neighbours - the Lord's-based London Spirit, who were valued at about £300m . What has changed in The Hundred for 2026? Published 20 July The Hundred 2026 - schedule and how to follow Published 14 July For the investors, the attraction must have been obvious. The Oval is one of the world's most recognisable sporting venues, Invincibles had won five titles across men's and women's competitions and Surrey regularly attracts some of the highest attendances in the county game. "We do cricket well," Elworthy said. "We've got an incredibly strong membership, incredible attendances across formats and we are based in London. It's a really attractive proposition." As part of the deal, Invincibles were rebranded MI London , bringing the franchise in line with the rest of the MI stable that includes MI Cape Town, MI Emirates and MI New York. But Surrey, who remain the major shareholder, were determined not to lose their identity. Elworthy added: "The beauty of this partnership is that the agreement was signed in late 2025 and we are halfway through our first season together, but we haven't even had to look at the contract once. "We're only looking to make this a success together." So what has actually changed? Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Steve Elworthy was managing director of the 2019 Cricket World Cup before joining Surrey in 2021 Not much - at least for the players, according to England all-rounder Will Jacks. "It felt like a very smooth transition for me, having a foot in both camps," Jacks said, when asked about the team's changed identity. The 27-year-old came through the ranks at Surrey, was part of Invincibles since its inception and also plays for MI in the IPL. "The kit's changed obviously and it incorporates the blue and gold of MI but the training kit still has the Invincibles colours, so it is kind of a mix of the two," Jacks said. "So I think they've done a good job of moulding the two together. But for us players and the coaching staff, everything feels very similar." Tom Moody, who guided Invincibles to a hat-trick of men's titles as head coach, has been replaced by Kieron Pollard , who previously played in the IPL for MI as well as for their sister teams in Major League Cricket, SA20 and ILT20. Skipper Sam Billings has also left, replaced by Sam Curran. Mitchell McClenaghan also joined from the MI network as the men's bowling coach but there is still a strong Surrey presence in the coaching staff with Gareth Batty, Jim Troughton and Nic Pothas playing prominent roles. It's a similar story with the women's side where Lisa Keightley, fresh from coaching MI in the Women's Premier League (WPL), succeeded Jonathan Batty but is joined by Surrey women's head coach Johann Myburgh and Dan Helesfay. Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Lisa Keightley previously won The Hundred with Northern Superchargers Perhaps the biggest additions from the MI investment have come in the form of commercial expertise and global reach. "MI have got teams around the world and business around the world, so that's something we've learned from them," Elworthy said. "The Hundred previously was pretty local. Whereas now, I think we've actually got a global brand here and global partners now. That's a brilliant place to be. "All other teams MI have around the world, they are the sole owners. But they're a minority shareholder here but we don't behave like that. We behave as a team to do the best for MI London." Former Australia and England coach Keightley echoed Elworthy's words. "I know MI have been very mindful that for the first time, they're working with another organisation," Keightley said. "From my experience, both organisations are working really hard to make it successful. "MI's insight from having so many teams is definitely helpful. I know how passionate the owners are and when they commit to something, they do everything to make sure the team's successful." For players, it also offers a chance to play for other franchises in the MI network and thereby, grow their game. "I've been very lucky," Jacks said. "Playing with so many great players and icons of Indian cricket at MI has opened me up to a lot of new things and skills. That experience, you can't buy that." Keightley added: "If you're a MI London player, there's definitely an opportunity to be involved in WPL. Because you build the relationship, you know what a player can do and they know the environment that they're going into." What's next for MI London? Their supporters might still be adjusting to the new name and colours but Surrey and MI are already planning for the future. One important part of their plans will be turning MI London into a brand that exists year-round rather than for just a few weeks each summer. "You don't want a competition that everybody only thinks about while it's happening," Elworthy said. "It's our job to make sure there's a cycle all the way through the year." They also plan to take greater responsibility for areas currently managed by the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB). Having completed the takeover only months before the start of the season, they have relied on ECB to deliver operational aspects, including ticketing. But Elworthy said the club are currently considering which services they want to take in-house from 2027. He said: "We want to control and run all the facets of the team - the delivery of the game, the global expansion and building the brand itself." On the field though, the ambition remains unchanged. After five titles in as many years, MI London's focus is on producing more silverware-winning teams. That may happen very soon if their men's team can maintain the form which has seen them reach second in the table after five matches. Related topics Cricket The Hundred Franchise Cricket MI London Surrey More on this story Who am I? Guess The Hundred cricket star No 14 Published 3 August Get cricket news sent straight to your phone Published 1 day ago Shorts Previous Next 0:46 'This loss will be the making of him' Peet on Itauma defeat 00:00:46, play video 'This loss will be the making of him' Peet on Itauma defeat 0:38 Can Liverpool get Isak get firing? 00:00:38, play video Can Liverpool get Isak get firing? 1:02 Spurs fan - We should've got Liam Delap. 00:01:02, play video Spurs fan - We should've got Liam Delap 0:18 'Terminator' Hrgovic has one of the 'best chins in boxing' 00:00:18, play video 'Terminator' Hrgovic has one of the 'best chins in boxing' 0:27 Jake Paul is giving women's boxing a huge platform - Kamale. 00:00:27, play video Jake Paul is giving women's boxing a huge platform - Kamale 0:49 US Open players complain of cannabis smell. 00:00:49, play video US Open players complain of cannabis smell 1:11 What will Barcola bring to Liverpool? 00:01:11, play video What will Barcola bring to Liverpool? 0:38 Things get intense in the watchalong studio... 00:00:38, play video Things get intense in the watchalong studio... 0:33 Alex Scott responds to transfer speculation? 00:00:33, play video Alex Scott responds to transfer speculation? 0:26 Does Virgil van Dijk need more protection? 00:00:26, play video Does Virgil van Dijk need more protection? 0:27 'You can't play that!' - Gay trapped lbw. 00:00:27, play video 'You can't play that!' - Gay trapped lbw 0:40 McLaren contract extension 'easy decision' for Norris. 00:00:40, play video McLaren contract extension 'easy decision' for Norris 0:44 The worst thing about being a boxer. 00:00:44, play video The worst thing about being a boxer Top stories Itauma punches himself out against Hrgovic in world-title fight Published 47 minutes ago Man City open talks with Liverpool over Gakpo Published 3 hours ago £300m spent, bottom of the table... but Spurs boss De Zerbi 'not angry' Published 2 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC Low-key noughties sitcom starring Robert Webb and Paula Wilcox An immersive concert of ambient and classical soundscapes An action-revenge thriller steeped in mythology, starring Dev Patel Is crying good for you? Elsewhere in Sport £300m spent, bottom of the table... but Spurs boss De Zerbi 'not angry' 'That trust isn't there' - how does Iraola get best out of Isak? 'Not bad for the worst team in Premier League history' - Hull's perfect start A magician and a maverick - this could be Cherki's moment for Man City Lampard 'somewhere in the middle' of Mourinho and Ancelotti How England are building an attack to trouble Australia Division, drama and power - what next for Infantino and Uefa? Sutton's predictions v Royal Blood drummer Ben Thatcher 'A generational icon' - why wildcards abound for Venus Williams Have expensively assembled Rangers improved at all under 'mortified' McInnes? Villa sign Goretzka - what went wrong at Bayern and what will he bring? Why Herrera is playing for free in Spanish third division Are left-handers better and when will Root catch Tendulkar? Cricket Q&A Sir Billy Boston - 'the world-class athlete, whose story deserved to be told' Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.