Spain to impose border controls against Italy as row over Ceuta migrant influx intensifies - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat World Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East Spain imposes border controls against Italy as row over Ceuta migrant influx intensifies Image source, Reuters Image caption, Both countries say their border checks will remain in place for one month By Henry Moore Published 7 August 2026 Updated 7 hours ago Spain has imposed border controls on all air and sea travel from Italy as a row between the two EU countries intensifies. The measures - which started at midnight (22:00 GMT) and will last for a month - come a week after Italy introduced similar restrictions following an influx of about 78,000 migrants from Morocco into the Spanish exclave of Ceuta. Spanish officials said the documents of 5%-10% of passengers were being checked before they were allowed to disembark planes. Italy has also said its border controls are random. The crisis has pitted Spain's socialist leader Pedro Sanchez against Italy's conservative leader Giorgia Meloni - who has long called for stricter EU migration rules. Italy does not share a land border with Spain. Its government said last week that decision to temporarily suspend the ​border-free Schengen arrangement was to prevent any of the migrants who had entered Ceuta from travelling on to Italy. Madrid dismissed this position, saying it was based on "spurious arguments" that lacked any basis in fact because the migrants who entered Ceuta had no way of entering the Schengen area. On Friday, Spain demanded Italy reverse its checks by Sunday. Rome said they would stay until at least 15 August - when, it said, Spain "expects a new wave of migration" to hit Ceuta. Italy has said that Spanish and EU citizens are exempt from additional checks when arriving in Italy, with these extra steps only for non-EU residents. However, it is not clear how border officials were meant to distinguish between EU and non-EU travellers and El Pais has reported that several Italian airport terminals have seen long queues and waiting times in recent days, with passengers arriving from Spain directed to a specific line for checks. As for Spanish controls, the authorities insists the immigration checks are random. However, a passenger arriving in Madrid on Saturday told national broadcaster RTVE that all passengers on her flight had had to show their passports. "They told us we couldn't get off the plane without showing our documents," Elisa said. Another passenger said "we were stopped and asked for identification, which the police seemed to approve of". Spain says its checks will stay in place until 7 September "unless a change in the circumstances that led to its adoption warrants modifying that period". Figure caption, Watch: Migrants started to return to Morocco after thousands entered Spain's Ceuta on 30 July Temporary suspensions of the Schengen agreement are not unprecedented. Italy also maintains controls on its border with Slovenia. Italy's decision to suspend Schengen for a month was backed by Finland and Denmark, while the Czech Republic called for Spain's membership to be temporarily suspended. Most of the migrants who arrived in Ceuta last week were returned within days. One hundred are believed to have died during the crossing. Nearly 1,400 minors, some of them "very young boys and girls", still remain there. Spain has not announced an anticipated second wave of crossings from Morocco. But BBC Arabic has found dozens of Facebook posts calling for a second crossing in mid-August, including some that advertised swimming equipment for sale. Six of these groups had more than 100,000 followers. Meta says it has removed posts that violate its policy. The Spanish prime minister's office told El Pais they were monitoring the situation but did not expect a repeat of scenes from last week. It remains unclear exactly why tens of thousands of migrants attempted to cross into Ceuta, but the EU's Migration Commissioner Magnus Brunner has suggested criminal networks spreading disinformation were to blame - an assertion the Spanish government has agreed with. The crossings came after Spain's Supreme Court ruled that migrants stopped at sea while trying to reach Ceuta or Melilla cannot be summarily returned to Morocco. Morocco, for its part, has laid blame for the crisis on the court, with an unnamed government source briefing local outlets that "the deterrent element of the system collapsed and the dam gave way, not under the weight of the criminals, but of a judge's decision". The number of people swimming to Ceuta at once has raised questions about why Morocco's border guards did not attempt to stop them. The two exclaves have long been a bone of diplomatic contention between Spain and Morocco, which does not recognise Spanish sovereignty over them. Have you experienced travel disruption between Spain and Italy? Get in touch here . Get in touch Have you experienced travel disruption between Spain and Italy? Contact form Contact form Related topics Europe Morocco Migration Spain Africa Italy Giorgia Meloni More on this story EU calls for stronger borders after Ceuta migrant crossings Published 5 days ago Spain's PM blames traffickers after 60,000 migrants reach Ceuta from Morocco Published 31 July How Spain's migrant crisis created a political storm - whipped up by social media Published 6 days ago The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:38 Wildfire raging in Canada's British Columbia. 00:00:38, play video Wildfire raging in Canada's British Columbia 1:02 Child among three killed in Russian missile attacks near Kyiv. 00:01:02, play video Child among three killed in Russian missile attacks near Kyiv 0:28 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update. 00:00:28, play video 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update 0:34 Timelapse shows mass balloon ascent in Bristol. 00:00:34, play video Timelapse shows mass balloon ascent in Bristol 1:17 The tech that could map every tree on earth. 00:01:17, play video The tech that could map every tree on earth 0:59 Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 00:00:59, play video Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 1:07 Riding England's longest zip wire. 00:01:07, play video Riding England's longest zip wire 1:21 How many different cubes can you make? 00:01:21, play video How many different cubes can you make? 2:01 Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape. 00:02:01, play video Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape 1:02 Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter. 00:01:02, play video Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter 1:17 What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:17, play video What we know about the Thailand school shooting 0:48 Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 00:00:48, play video Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 0:53 Are you hung up on hangers? 00:00:53, play video Are you hung up on hangers? 0:52 Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 00:00:52, play video Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 0:31 The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 00:00:31, play video The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 0:43 Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan. 00:00:43, play video Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan 0:33 Moment raiders drive car into service station. 00:00:33, play video Moment raiders drive car into service station 1:11 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 00:01:11, play video 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 0:39 How much rain will end the drought? 00:00:39, play video How much rain will end the drought? Top stories Simon Levy victims urged to come forward as police accused of 'litany of failures' Published 10 hours ago Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands Published 15 hours ago The phone book that led us to Assad's spy chief in hiding Published 22 hours ago More to explore I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock Pokémon hobby takes brothers to world championships 'We had to flee with just my daughter's clothes and dolls' Obesity rates have doubled in England since 1993 - what's going on? The 101-year-old who created a dolls' house museum with her childhood toys Artist's 'anger and frustration' with internet copycats The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC With great power comes great responsibility She's not a bad girl anymore, wink wink wink wink Can a test tell you what's living inside your gut? How much discipline is too much in school? Most read 1 Strictly dancers Ola and James Jordan separate after 23 years of marriage 2 Hormuz talks positive, Oman says, as Iran warns deal would not open strait 3 I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock 4 He's been frozen on Everest for 30 years, now 'Green Boots' may finally be coming home 5 Sturgeon hasn't spoken to Murrell since he was jailed for embezzling SNP funds 6 Digital cameras and wired earphones are back - and 'a bit more real' 7 Madonna pays tribute to 'genius, otherworldly' producer William Orbit 8 Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands 9 Simon Levy victims urged to come forward as police accused of 'litany of failures' 10 How a former GB Olympian curbed his porn problem - and the signs and steps to recovery BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.