Gianni Infantino: Fifa criticises campaign to oust president - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Football Scores & Fixtures Tables World Cup Follow Your Team Pre-Season Fixtures Gossip Transfers Women European Leagues & Cups Quizzes Fifa criticises campaign to oust president Infantino Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Gianni Infantino apologised for the Fifa Forward Enterprise proposal, but now it seems to be business as usual for the Fifa president By Dale Johnson Football issues correspondent Published 16 minutes ago Fifa has strongly criticised what it calls a "concerted and ongoing effort" to "undermine" the organisation and its president Gianni Infantino. The statement follows a Daily Telegraph report , external which claimed Infantino's alleged lover was given a severance payment by Uefa after he had an affair while he was its general secretary. Fifa hit out at "unsubstantiated assertions and demonstrably false claims", adding that "speculation and insinuation should not be presented as fact". Infantino has come under increasing pressure from Uefa and European football associations over his aborted Fifa Forward Enterprise (FFE) proposal. FFE would have meant a new company being created to manage commercial and ticketing rights, with 21% sold off to a private investment company. Uefa has said it has lost confidence in Infantino, while Norwegian Football Federation (NFF) president Lise Klaveness on Friday called on the Swiss-Italian to resign . European football's governing body says its threat to boycott Fifa events remains on the table, adding that certain conditions have not been met. "The Fifa President was democratically elected by Fifa's Member Associations and continues to serve with their mandate," Fifa said in its statement on Saturday. "It is increasingly evident that there is a concerted and ongoing effort by some to undermine Fifa and its president. "Those who do not have the support of Fifa's member associations should not seek to achieve through allegation, insinuation or misinformation what they cannot achieve through Fifa's established democratic processes." Opposition to Infantino is largely from within Europe. The Mexican Football Federation broke ranks with its regional governing body Concacaf to come out in support of Infantino. It echoed a statement from Conmebol - South America's governing body - in saying it would reject any attempt to remove Infantino without a vote involving all 211 Fifa member countries. Infantino is also unanimously backed by the 54 nations of the Confederation of African Football (Caf). Related topics Football Shorts Previous Next 0:20 'I love Colombia!' - Infantino on South American support. 00:00:20, play video 'I love Colombia!' - Infantino on South American support 0:45 People were crying - Nunes on Guardiola exit. 00:00:45, play video People were crying - Nunes on Guardiola exit 0:55 How Uefa's boycott could impact women's football. 00:00:55, play video How Uefa's boycott could impact women's football 0:18 Infantino questioned by journalist in Colombia. 00:00:18, play video Infantino questioned by journalist in Colombia Top stories Fifa criticises campaign to oust president Infantino Published 16 minutes ago Tielemans cameo against PSG hints at Man Utd future Published 2 hours ago Garcia hopes long-term friend Alonso's Chelsea finish second to Liverpool Published 5 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC With great power comes great responsibility The rise and fall of a transatlantic cocaine empire Chris Packham explores four billion years of evolution Liza lands a major film job but her past could derail everything Elsewhere in Sport Life as a Wag in the transfer window Tielemans cameo against PSG hints at Man Utd future 'What a throw!' - Southern Brave's two stunning run outs. Video 'What a throw!' - Southern Brave's two stunning run outs Why can't the Premier League attract the world's best players? Inside Newcastle 2.0 - how the project is changing Politicians, private jets and power - the life of a Fifa president A secret invite and other 'pinch-me' moments before Leicester woke up 39 moves across five countries - football's ultimate journeyman Who will leave Chelsea? How Blues could cut 41-man squad Why Real are happy to pay £120m for raw genius of Diomande Weekly sports quiz: Beckham at the Commonwealth Games? Lines to be first British woman in America's Cup team for 90 years Why Liverpool are ready to make Barcola third £100m signing Why £1m-a-season deal will be hard for Pollock and Hearn to find A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.