Dogs to be euthanised after man dies following suspected animal attack at rural Sydney property | New South Wales | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development NSW police found a dead man at an Eschol Park property in Sydney after a suspected dog attack. Photograph: David Gray/AFP/Getty Images View image in fullscreen NSW police found a dead man at an Eschol Park property in Sydney after a suspected dog attack. Photograph: David Gray/AFP/Getty Images New South Wales Dogs to be euthanised after man dies following suspected animal attack at rural Sydney property Police say body of 23-year-old found at Eschol Park property with significant injuries, indicating he may have been attacked before death Follow our Australia news live blog for latest updates Get our breaking news email , free app or daily news podcast Australian Associated Press Fri 7 Aug 2026 04.40 EDT First published on Thu 6 Aug 2026 21.33 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google A group of dogs has been taken to a shelter to be euthanised after a young man died following a suspected dog attack at a rural Sydney property. Authorities were alerted to the discovery of the 23-year-old’s body at a rural property in Sydney’s south-west on Wednesday. Police found the body with what they described as significant injuries and established a crime scene. Sign up for the Breaking News Australia email “Initial inquiries indicate the man may have been attacked by animals prior to his death,” New South Wales police said in a statement. Campbelltown investigators and council rangers attended an Eschol Park property on Friday morning and seized five dogs, who were taken to the animal shelter to be euthanised, police said. According to Sydney radio station 2GB, none of the animals were registered or microchipped. NSW police said a 53-year-old man was also treated at the scene for a minor hand injury. The NSW police commissioner, Mal Lanyon, said the reasons behind the 23-year-old’s presence at the house was unclear. “We don’t know the circumstances by which the male was on the premises,” he told reporters. “He certainly doesn’t appear to be a resident of that location.” Guardian Australia understands the incident occurred at a house on Badgally Road known as Saturn’s Rings or the Universal Power House. Based on the rings of Saturn, the circular building was designed by Stefan Dzwonnik in the 1970s and intended to serve as a home for him and his family, according to the Campbelltown City Library . Map But Saturn’s Rings was never completed, and Dzwonnik died in 2018, according to the library. The Campbelltown council said it was assisting police. “Council is supporting police inquiries and will continue to assist as required, in accordance with its legislative responsibilities, including determining the registration and ownership status of the dogs,” a spokesperson said. Inquiries are ongoing and a report will be prepared for the coroner. Achol Arok contributed reporting Explore more on these topics New South Wales Sydney news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story ‘Shame is the punishment’: as Icac delves into the shadowy Reformers, ‘whales’ are coming to the surface 22h ago Five years and $122m later, North Sydney Olympic swimming pool has finally reopened. Was it worth the wait? 1d ago Police drop charges against 125 Rising Tide protesters two years after Newcastle port blockade 2d ago Minns said he wouldn’t ‘gloat’ about Icac hearings into the Liberals. Instead, he’s quietly taking out the trash 2d ago Texts suggest Angus Taylor ‘paid money to the Reformers … or was refusing to’, Icac inquiry hears 3d ago The Icac spotlight has shone on Dominic Perrottet’s brother – and it won’t be the last we hear from his family 3d ago NSW Liberal leader says ‘leaking is never good’ but defers call on Tudehope’s fate until after Icac 4d ago ‘Did you send that report?’ The Icac bombshell that came late for Damien Tudehope 4d ago Australian town defends its ‘long-valued and admired’ statue of an enslaved African American child 4d ago NSW Liberal admits to leaking confidential report to young conservative powerbrokers, inquiry hears 5d ago Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)