The Best Dehumidifiers for Small Rooms | NBC Selected IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Top stories Owala’s back-to-school sale is here The best keratosis pilaris treatments for smoother skin Packing your skin care and makeup is so much easier with this toiletry bag How often should you change and wash your towels REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gearpost Walmart has up to 65% off back-to-school must-haves 35+ college-exclusive back-to-school deals Skip to Content About Us Wellness All Wellness Skin Care Hair Care Oral Care Health Fitness Sleep Home All Home Small appliances Bedding & bath Cleaning Vacuums Office Gardening Kitchen All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech All Tech Electronics Personal Tech TVs Audio Computers Cameras Pets All Pets Dogs Cats Pet Care Lifestyle All Lifestyle Sports Travel Parenting Apparel Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping Subscribe Share About Us Wellness Main Menu All Wellness Skin Care Wellness All Skin Care Hair Care Wellness All Hair Care Oral Care Wellness All Oral Care Health Wellness All Health Fitness Wellness All Fitness Sleep Wellness All Sleep Home Main Menu All Home Small appliances Home All Small appliances Bedding & bath Home All Bedding & bath Cleaning Home All Cleaning Vacuums Home All Vacuums Office Home All Office Gardening Kitchen Main Menu All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech Main Menu All Tech Electronics Tech All Electronics Personal Tech Tech All Personal Tech TVs Tech All TVs Audio Tech All Audio Computers Cameras Pets Main Menu All Pets Dogs Pets All Dogs Cats Pets All Cats Pet Care Pets All Pet Care Lifestyle Main Menu All Lifestyle Sports Travel Lifestyle All Travel Parenting Apparel Lifestyle All Apparel Footwear Lifestyle All Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales Main Menu All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories Main Menu All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides Main Menu All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping More from NBC Sign up for the Selected Newsletter Check out Shop TODAY NBC News TODAY About Help Careers Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information CA Notice Terms Of Service NBC News Sitemap Advertise Ad Choices Follow Selected © 2026 NBCNEWS.COM NBC Selected independently determines what we cover and recommend. When you click on or buy through our links, we earn a commission. Learn more . Small Home Appliances The 7 best dehumidifiers for offices, closets, RVs and other small spaces Dehumidifiers help reduce humidity in rooms and prevent mold and mildew growth. Aug. 6, 2026, 2:05 PM EDT Cory Fernandez Commerce Editor Skip to table of contents Brands like Midea, Pure Enrichment and Eva-Dry have dehumidifiers with features fitting for small rooms. Staples; Home Depot; Amazon In this article Our top picks The best dehumidifiers for small rooms What does a dehumidifier do? How I picked the best dehumidifiers for small rooms How to shop for dehumidifiers for small rooms Frequently asked questions Meet our appliance experts Why trust NBC Selected? See 5 More As someone from Florida, I’m more than familiar with what an overload of humidity feels like, and how unbearable it can be at times. And when you step indoors, you don’t want that humid feeling to follow you. A dehumidifier made for small rooms can help you avoid having that sticky, muggy air lingering in your space, whether you live in a cozy (read: little) house or apartment . While a humidifier provides health benefits by increasing levels of humidity, a dehumidifier reduces moisture in the air, which can also be comforting, depending on things like the weather or if you’re feeling ill. But not all dehumidifiers have the same efficacy in every room — some are meant for large homes and others are best suited for small areas. Plus, if you don’t need a large appliance, you may not want to pay the large price that typically comes with one. To find the best dehumidifiers for small rooms, I talked to multiple home appliance experts, including ones from Ace Hardware and Midea , for their guidance on what features to consider in each and for their product recommendations, which I talk more about below. Selected. Our top picks Best overall dehumidifier Pro Breeze Dehumidifier $undefined $44.99 Home Depot Learn more Best budget dehumidifier Sanvinder Dehumidifier for Home $28.52 $31.69 Amazon Learn more Best splurge Midea Cube 20-Pint Dehumidifier $undefined $199.00 Amazon Learn more Best portable dehumidifier Eva-Dry Mini Dehumidifier $14.97 $24.95 Amazon Learn more See 1 More Related selected selected How to clean a humidifier and prevent it from growing mold Want more from NBC Selected? Sign up for our newsletter, The Selection, and shop smarter. The best dehumidifiers for small rooms Below are a few top-rated dehumidifiers that are fit for small rooms. Each one has a four-star average rating from 500 reviews or more on Amazon or at least 100 reviews at another retailer, with many from brands we’ve covered before. I also include information about water tank capacity and other specifications in the “What to know” menu, and expound on why these features are important further below. Best overall Pro Breeze Dehumidifier $ 44.99 Home Depot What to know Type: thermoelectric | Capacity: 16 oz. | Additional features: LED light, auto shut-off | Square feet: 150 | Dimensions: 8.6 x 6 x 5 in. What we like Has an LED light Quiet Auto-off feature Something to note Works up to 150 sq. ft. This dehumidifier is perfect for small bedrooms as well as bathrooms, basements and more. The water tank has a capacity of up to 16 ounces and it can remove up to 9 ounces of moisture a day, according to the brand. It also has an auto shut-off feature that activates when it’s reached maximum capacity. It helps get rid of condensation, prevents mold growth and stops musty odors caused by too much moisture in the air. It’s also available in a larger size with a larger bucket capacity. Best budget Sanvinder Dehumidifier for Home $ 28.52 $ 31.69 Amazon Now 10% off What to know Type: thermoelectric | Capacity: 25 ounces | Additional features: built-in changeable light, auto shut-off | Square feet: 285 | Dimensions: 5 x 5 x 8.3 inches What we like Has a multicolor light Quiet Works for campers and RVs Something to note Must clean regularly This dehumidifier is best suited for rooms or small apartments just under 30 square feet. It removes up to 16 ounces of water a day, which is significant for a small room, and makes only 35 decibels of sound, so it’s relatively quiet — people who bought the dehumidifier say they love how quiet it is. It has a built-in multi-color light, plus, shoppers say they enjoy how small it is; and one even says that they use it for their camper . Best splurge Midea Cube 20-Pint Dehumidifier $ 199.00 Amazon $ 199.99 Midea What to know Type: refrigerant | Capacity: 3.2 gallons | Additional features: works with WiFi, energy efficient | Square feet: up to 1,500 sq. ft. | Dimensions: 13.5 x 13.5 x 23.19 in. What we like Energy Star certified Has wheels Smart features Something to note Expensive If you want one dehumidifier for your entire small home instead of having several for separate rooms, this one from Midea would be a great option. It’s a refrigerant dehumidifier instead of a thermoelectric model, meaning it uses a compressor to convert humid air into moisture that it then collects in a water tank. It holds up to 3 gallons of water and works for up to 1,500 square feet, so it would work well in a small apartment or large basement. The wheeled appliance has smart features and app compatibility, so it works with Amazon Alexa. It also has a handle on the side, so it’s easy to move from its spot when it’s time to empty it. Best compact Eva-Dry Mini Dehumidifier $ 14.97 $ 24.95 Amazon Now 40% off $ 22.99 Ace Hardware $ 19.72 $ 22.30 Walmart Now 12% off What to know Type: desiccant | Capacity: 6 ounces | Additional features: has silica gel beads that change color, has a hook | Dimensions: 6.25 x 1.25 x 4.75 in. What we like Portable Helps prevent mildew Plug-in design Something to note Only for up to 330 cubic feet This small portable dehumidifier from Eva-Dry works differently than all of the options above — it’s a plug in device that has beads made from silica gel (instead of a water tank) that change color as the device absorbs moisture from the air. When it changes from orange to green, you have to recharge it using the collapsible plug on the side. It works for rooms up to 330 square feet (less than 50 square feet), such as a walk-in closet or trailer, and it works for up to 30 days at a time and collects about 4 to 6 ounces of water before having to be recharged, according to the brand. Best for different room sizes Tabyik Dehumidifier $ 39.99 $ 59.99 Amazon Now 33% off What to know Type: thermoelectric | Capacity: 35 oz. | Additional features: auto shut-off, built-in light | Square feet: 280 | Dimensions: 5.9 x 5.9 x 10 in. What we like Works for over 250 sq. ft. Available in multiple sizes Has a built-in light Something to note Must be cleaned The Tabyik dehumidifier works for rooms up to 280 square feet, so it would be an ideal fit for almost any bedroom, and for bathrooms and small apartments (we see you NYC and LA). It has a customizable seven-color light and it can remove up to 16 ounces of moisture a day, according to the brand. It also has a red warning light that flickers when the water tank is at capacity and about to automatically shut off. Best for bathrooms and vehicles Pure Enrichment PureDry Deluxe Portable Dehumidifier $ 99.99 Staples $ 69.99 Lowe's What to know Type: thermoelectric | Capacity: 27 oz. | Additional features: auto shut-off | Dimensions: 5.5 x 6.3 x 9.5 inches What we like Works for RVs Quiet Has grips on the bottom Something to note Doesn’t have a light The Pure Enrichment PureDry dehumidifier has a simple design and is well suited for small rooms and living areas, including RVs, bathrooms and even closets, according to the brand. It has a water tank capacity of up to 27 ounces and it has an auto shut-off feature that turns on when the tank has reached maximum capacity (27 ounces). It’s best for rooms around 150 square feet or less. Related selected selected The best portable air conditioners for all of us without central air What does a dehumidifier do? “The goal of a dehumidifier is to lower the humidity in a room or building by removing moisture from the air,” says David Leezer*, engineering director at home appliance brand Midea . “There are many benefits to doing this, but the primary benefit is to improve the comfort level of a room.” Additionally, dehumidifiers help get rid of the odors that are caused by excess moisture in the air (for example: bath towels trying to dry on a rack), according to Leezer. Plus, making a room less humid can help certain electronic devices and items made from delicate material (like wood or ones that rust) avoid being damaged by excess humidity, according to Leezer. Overly humid areas in the home can lead to mold growth because materials absorb moisture and aren’t drying fast enough. *Any inclusion of Midea products in this story was made independently of Leezer and Rossetto, who we only consulted for shopping tips and guidance. We did not ask Leezer for product recommendations from Midea. How I picked the best dehumidifiers for small rooms I rounded up a few important factors that experts recommended I take into consideration when making the list of dehumidifiers below: Type: There are a few different types of dehumidifiers to know about when shopping, says Leezer. ”The most common is called a mechanical or refrigerant dehumidifier. This type uses the same physics and parts as an air conditioner, just in a slightly different way,” he says. “Mechanical dehumidifiers are most beneficial because they can work in large rooms or spaces.” Additionally, there are desiccant-based dehumidifiers, such as the Eva-Dry Mini Dehumidifier , that use moisture absorbing materials, like silica gel, to absorb water rather than a tank. There are also thermoelectric dehumidifiers, which Leezer says are best for very small areas since they can only extract small amounts of moisture, which is why most of the options above are thermoelectric. Water tank: When it comes to shopping for a dehumidifier for a small room, “the best products will balance small footprints with a large water tank, energy efficiency, low noise operation and smart connectivity,” says Caroline Rossetto*, product marketing director at Midea. A large water tank means it will be able to absorb more water at a time and you won’t be emptying the tank as often. All of the options on the list above (except the Eva-Dry) have a water tank with a capacity of at least 16 ounces. Low noise: Another important feature for a dehumidifier for a small room, such as a bedroom where you’ll be sleeping, is low noise. Several of the models that I featured above mention having technology that allows the dehumidifier to work and absorb water quietly, with around 35 decibels of sound. Many people who bought the dehumidifiers above mention how quiet they are. Energy efficiency: A dehumidifier that is energy efficient is also important, since it can help you save on energy bills, particularly if it’s Energy Star certified, according to Rosetto. While not all the appliances featured above are Energy Star certified, some are still described as energy efficient by their respective brands. And since the dehumidifiers above are meant for small rooms, they don’t use as much energy as ones meant for a large area or home. Still, if saving money and energy is important to you, then finding a model that is Energy Star certified is a smart route to take. *Any inclusion of Midea products in this story was made independently of Leezer and Rossetto, who we only consulted for shopping tips and guidance. We did not ask Rossetto for product recommendations from Midea . How to shop for dehumidifiers for small rooms Measure your room or home. Find out the size in square feet of your room so you know how much area your dehumidifier will have to cover. Most brands mention the maximum square footage the dehumidifier will effectively cover. Decide on the best type of dehumidifier for your room. As Leezer mentioned above, a thermoelectric dehumidifier is best for small areas because it is “limited on how much moisture it can remove from the air.” Thus, it would be unnecessarily costly to buy a dehumidifier meant for a 1,500-square-foot space if you’re only using it for a closet, for example. Frequently asked questions How are dehumidifiers different from humidifiers? “Dehumidifiers are used in hot summer months when moisture in the air is high and you want to remove it from your living space,” says Lou Manfredini, home appliance expert at Ace Hardware . “Humidifiers are used in the winter when the air is dry, to bring moisture back into a home.” Dehumidifiers have a coil that pulls air into them and uses an exhaust to push dry air out, according to Manfredini. As it does this, the moisture turns into condensation in the form of water in a tank. Meet our appliance experts At NBC Selected, we work with experts who have specialized knowledge and authority based on relevant training and/or experience. We also take steps to ensure all expert advice and recommendations are made independently and without undisclosed financial conflicts of interest. David Leezer is the engineering director for packaged AC products at Midea *. Caroline Rosetto is a product marketing director at Midea *. Lou Manfredini is a home appliance expert at Ace Hardware .* *Any inclusion of Midea products in this story was made independently of Leezer and Rosetto, who we only consulted for shopping tips and guidance. We did not ask Leezer and Rosetto for product recommendations from Midea. *Any inclusion of products sold at Ace Hardware in this story was made independently of Manfredini, who we only consulted for shopping tips and guidance. We did not ask Manfredini for product recommendations from Ace Hardware. Why trust NBC Selected? I’m a commerce editor at NBC Selected, where I write about deals, sale events and home appliances. I’ve written about the best steam cleaners , how to clean stainless steel and hardwood floors and the best way to get rid of mold . I spoke to multiple home appliance experts for their guidance for this story. Catch up on NBC Selected’s in-depth coverage of tech and tools , wellness and more, and follow us on Facebook , Instagram , Twitter and TikTok to stay up to date. Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off Cory Fernandez Cory Fernandez is a commerce editor for NBC Selected, and an authority on all things food, cooking, kitchen, home, and general lifestyle. The 7 best dehumidifiers for offices, closets, RVs and other small spaces Skip the garbage bags: These sturdy moving bags hold clothes, linens and more — they’re now only $15 The 81+ best new products this month from Hoka, Béis, Sony, Olaplex and more Latest articles Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off In this article Our top picks The best dehumidifiers for small rooms What does a dehumidifier do? How I picked the best dehumidifiers for small rooms How to shop for dehumidifiers for small rooms Frequently asked questions Meet our appliance experts Why trust NBC Selected? ABOUT CONTACT HELP CAREERS PRIVACY POLICY DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION CA NOTICE TERMS OF SERVICE NBC NEWS SITEMAP AD CHOICES ADVERTISE DEALS & SALES SKIN CARE HEALTH TECH NBCNews.com © 2026 SELECTED | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.