Test for Australia’s best laundry detergent sees Aldi and Omo tied for first place | Consumer affairs | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Choice tested more than 40 supermarket laundry detergents and with Aldi and Omo products tied for first place. Photograph: Huizeng Hu/Getty Images View image in fullscreen Choice tested more than 40 supermarket laundry detergents and with Aldi and Omo products tied for first place. Photograph: Huizeng Hu/Getty Images Consumer affairs Test for Australia’s best laundry detergent sees Aldi and Omo tied for first place In a Choice test of 48 products, the Aldi powder also came out on top for top loaders Get our breaking news email , free app or daily news podcast Yvonne C Lam Wed 5 Aug 2026 03.46 EDT Last modified on Wed 5 Aug 2026 03.48 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Consumer advocacy group Choice has put more than 40 supermarket laundry detergent products through the wringer, naming two Omo and one Aldi product as its best performers – while some other brands perform barely better than water. In a lab test of 48 laundry powders, liquids and capsules, Aldi Trimat Advanced Laundry Powder Concentrate, Omo Active Clean Powder and Omo Ultimate Powder shared equal-first billing for front loader washing machines, with all three products scoring 82% overall. For consumers looking for a detergent that knocks their socks off, the Aldi Trimat Advanced Laundry Powder Concentrate was the best value, with a price tag of $10.49 for a 2kg box or 44c per wash. By comparison, Omo Ultimate Powder costs for $36 for a 2kg box or $1.16 per wash, making it the most expensive laundry powder in the test. Kmart sells out of low-cost rival to Meta camera glasses across Australia amid warnings of ‘privacy nightmare’ Read more Chris Barnes, a Choice household expert said the results are “not surprising”. Omo and Aldi Trimat laundry powders historically perform well in Choice tests, although at very different price points. “Aldi …[tends] to produce some very good performers at quite a good price,” said Barnes. “But then you’ll get other brands like Omo who clearly are positioning themselves as a premium product.” “Omo … do often come out pretty well. Although not necessarily better than the cheaper Aldi ones.” In Choice’s test, which was conducted in an external lab, each detergent was taken for a spin in a front loader and top loader machine. Aldi Trimat Advanced Laundry Powder Concentrate also scored top marks when tested in a top loader, at 66%, while Omo Ultimate powder placed second with a score of 62%. Barnes said the products were tested on swatches stained with perspiration, grass and mud, and “general soiling”, as well as olive oil, tomato, chocolate ice-cream, baby food, mineral oil, make up and blood. After washing, the samples were measured with a spectrophotometer to assess their reflectance and how well the detergents performed. “It’s not just an eyeball measurement,” says Barnes. There were some dud suds, with five detergents scoring below 50% – barely better than water. When tested in a top loader machine, Earthwise Sensitive Laundry Liquid scored just 47%, making it the overall worst-ranked product of the test. By comparison, soiled laundry washed only in water in a top loader scored 43%. The wash up: Australia’s top-scoring dishwashing liquids include one of the cheapest, Choice finds Read more Active Expert Laundry Capsules and Earthwise Orange & Eucalyptus Laundry Liquid were also among the worst-performers in top loaders, both scoring 48%. Said Barnes: “You’re still paying a lot for not much more than water.” Earthwise Sensitive Laundry Liquid and Earthwise Orange & Eucalyptus Laundry Liquid cost 50c per wash. Guardian Australia contacted Earthwise and Metcash, the company behind Active Expert. Speaking generally about laundry detergents, Barnes said he can’t make a “clear conclusion” between a product’s environmental claims and its performance, as a lack of green claims on a product’s packaging don’t always correspond to a lack of green behaviours by a manufacturer. “Just because something claims to be eco-friendly, doesn’t always mean that the ones that don’t claim it, are not,” he said. As an example, many detergent brands have minimised or phased out phosphate chemicals over the years he said. “I think a lot of the manufacturers do look to be as environmentally friendly as they can, but they’re not always putting a top focus on it.” Explore more on these topics Consumer affairs Homes news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Celery and blood oranges top Australia’s best fruit and veg for August: ‘Everybody should be eating crunchy water’ 6h ago Kmart sells out of low-cost rival to Meta camera glasses across Australia amid warnings of ‘privacy nightmare’ 2d ago Why pay a premium fee for a service that isn’t? How the nationwide outage could hurt Telstra 10 Jul 2026 … … comments Alice Zaslavsky’s Georgian-spiced carrot, sweet potato and lentil soup – recipe 1d ago … … comments First Nations fashion celebrates weaving, wattle and waterways at from Country to Couture 2026 – in pictures 2d ago What does the arrival of bird flu in Australia mean for poultry and will eggs be more expensive? 5 Jul 2026 … … comments A ‘buttery’ mouthfeel or ‘meadow grass’ notes? How Australian olive oils rank against other supermarket options 1 Jul 2026 A job that changed me: At the Titanic theatre restaurant we always hit an iceberg, but were often hit by bread rolls too 2d ago … … comments Lonely planet: why are we addicted to the social media scroll when it is so clearly harming us? 2d ago … … comments 1 July changes: minimum wage rises, payday super, parental leave tweaks and everything else coming for 2026–27 30 Jun 2026 Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)