How K-pop is creating a new generation of Chilean pop stars : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics How K-pop is creating a new generation of Chilean pop stars K-pop conquered the world — now Chile's young creatives are remixing the movement and making it their own. The Americas K-pop's global wave inspires Chile's next pop stars Updated August 8, 2026 9:34 AM ET Originally published August 8, 2026 9:34 AM ET Heard on All Things Considered By John Bartlett K-pop mad in Chile Listen · 3:28 3-Minute Listen Playlist Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5899791/nx-s1-9880644" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Transcript Members of Q_ARE, a Chilean K-pop-inspired boy band, pose for a photo in Santiago, Chile. Rony Curifuta hide caption toggle caption Rony Curifuta SANTIAGO, Chile — Throughout this long, cold winter, an air of feverish anticipation has simmered in Chile's capital. This October, global K-pop sensation BTS will arrive in Santiago as part of their comeback world tour, marking the latest chapter in Latin America's growing embrace of Korean culture. The group has already played sold-out dates in Mexico, while additional sell-out shows are scheduled in Colombia, Peru, Argentina and Brazil. Demand in Mexico was so high that President Claudia Sheinbaum contacted South Korean officials to explore the possibility of adding more dates. From food and television to skincare and clothing, the Korean wave has found a passionate new audience across Latin America — and in Chile, it is being reimagined by a generation of young fans. Sponsor Message The phenomenon, known as Hallyu, or the "Korean wave," began spreading globally in the 1990s, moving Korean music, dramas, cuisine and beauty trends from niche interests into mainstream culture across the region. But in Chile, young people are doing more than consuming the Korean wave — they are reshaping it. By adopting the core elements of K-pop, from energetic choreography and high-value video production to a youthful, colorful aesthetic, they are transforming it into something uniquely their own. And now, a wave of homegrown, K-pop-inspired pop stars is building. (L-R) Mexico President Claudia Sheinbaum stands with BTS members V, RM, Jung Kook, Suga and Jimin as they greet fans from the balcony of the National Palace at Zócalo Square in Mexico City, May 6, 2026. BTS held three sold-out shows at Estadio GNP Seguros. Yuri Cortez/AFP hide caption toggle caption Yuri Cortez/AFP Q_ARE, a six-piece boy band, is producing energetic, fast-paced music that fuses lyrics in English, Spanish and Chilean slang with a K-pop aesthetic. Their videos combine retro video games, bright, flashing scene changes and colorful makeup — and they are amassing a considerable following. Ahead of the launch of their single "FÚ" in May, they convened at a dance studio in Santiago to work on choreography for the song — stepping and spinning in loose clothing and high-top sneakers as they were put through their paces. Outside, where salsa competed with reggaetón blaring from the different studios, the band explained where their inspiration came from. "I entered the artistic world thanks to K-pop," said Seba, 22, one of the group's vocalists. Sponsor Message "But despite all the inspiration and influence we have from Korea, we're clearly not K-pop because we're Latinos. We've transformed it into something of our own." The six boys — Seba, Jamin, Jota, Bin, Aiden and Fabi — answered an online casting call two years ago and, after a six-month audition process and rigorous training, the lineup was finalized. They debuted with their 2024 single "Try Again. " The group does everything itself, from songwriting to choreography, aesthetics to video design, and has its own fan group — the "Qniverse" — with members from around the globe. Q_ARE even went on tour to Brazil last year and has played at venues throughout Chile. "We have fans from Singapore, a fan from Japan who always comments on everything we upload, many fans here in Chile, as well as in Peru, Mexico, the United States and Costa Rica," explains Bin, who raps and dances in Q_ARE. "It's a bit crazy, really." Members of Q_ARE practice choreography during a rehearsal in Santiago, Chile. The six-member group is part of a growing wave of Chilean artists inspired by K-pop's music, visuals and performance style. John Bartlett for NPR hide caption toggle caption John Bartlett for NPR Occasionally, Chilean fans will take it upon themselves to explain the meaning of Chilean slang in their lyrics for other Latin Americans. The "Korean wave" has now well and truly engulfed Chile. There are now more than 50 Korean restaurants in Patronato, a small neighborhood that hosted the first wave of Korean migrants to Santiago throughout the 20th century. Many have Chilean owners who are capitalizing on the surge in interest in Korean culture, and others play music videos with their quick changes and colorful shifts on loop. Like many Chileans, Valeria Vivar's connection to Korea began with a childhood fascination with anime and other Asian cultures. Today, she coordinates the Rey Sejong Institute in Santiago , a Korean government-backed cultural institution with centers around the world. "We have different types of students," she says from a glass-walled foyer at Santiago's annual Korean cultural week. Around her, visitors sample Korean food, browse cosmetics, test their knowledge in quizzes and take part in K-pop dance contests. Sponsor Message The Rey Sejong Institute has about 200 students studying Korean — four times more than when it started classes in 2019. The center also runs a master's program in Korean Studies at Universidad Central. "There are students who want to learn Korean because they like K-pop, so they want to understand the songs of their favorite artists. Others like watching K-dramas or movies in their original language. But we've also seen an increase in students who are interested in literature and Korean society." With interest in Korean culture building more widely in Chile, Q_ARE is excited about where pop music is going. "I personally feel that Asian culture in the arts is far ahead of Chile, but that also benefits us," says Fabi. "We have the chance to create something new — hopefully, in the future, we'll see many more Chilean boy bands, and that's already happening. Many boy bands and girl bands are appearing, and we're super happy because we feel that we have been an example of taking that risk — others are deciding to take that opportunity." K Pop Chile Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices