Colorado River: First-ever shortage declared amid record US drought Skip to content Watch Live Home News Sport Business Technology Health Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Documentaries Site search Home News Sport Business Technology Health Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Documentaries Weather Newsletters Watch Live Colorado River: First-ever shortage declared amid record US drought 17 August 2021 Share Save Add as preferred on Google Drought hits the Hoover Dam: The US's largest reservoir fell to the lowest level in history. For the first time ever, the US government has declared a water shortage on the Colorado River, a life source to millions in the southwest. The supply cuts now ordered by a federal water agency come as Lake Mead, the river's main reservoir and largest in the US, drains at an alarming rate. Officials tied the historic drought to climate change as they announced the water supply reductions on Monday. Around 40 million people in the US and Mexico rely on the river for water. Lake Mead, which was created near Las Vegas after the building of the Hoover Dam, supplies water to Arizona, Nevada, California and Mexico. The lake is now at its lowest level since it was first formed in the 1930s. Federal water officials predict that by the end of 2021, the reservoir will be at 34% capacity. This first round of water supply cuts triggered by the shortage are expected to mainly affect farmers in Arizona starting in January. Nevada is also expected to shrink its water use starting next year, but state officials say they have already reduced water deliveries. Further cuts could hit next year if Lake Mead's level continues to fall. Bureau of Reclamation Deputy Commissioner Camille Touton said in a news conference on Monday the decision to enact water cuts was not taken lightly. She said that "additional actions will likely be necessary in the very near future". Most of the Western US is experiencing a historic multi-year drought. A UN report released last week warned that droughts are growing more frequent and more intense as the planet warms. Droughts that typically would occur ever 10 years now happen with 70% more frequency, the report's authors found. Not all droughts are due to climate change, but excess heat in the atmosphere is drawing more moisture out of the earth and making droughts worse. Climate report is 'code red for humanity' The world has already warmed by about 1.2C since since the industrial era began and temperatures will keep rising unless governments around the world make steep cuts to emissions. Then and now: A 'megadrought' in California Could this be California's worst year for drought? Images show decline of California's 'life source' Climate report is 'code red for humanity' Drought Climate change United States Arizona Related More hosepipe bans in force as drought declared - is your area affected? Why do pipes burst in heatwaves - and what can be done? What will you tell your grandchildren about the summer of '26? More from the BBC Just now Iran attacks US bases in Middle East after reports US strike killed five at wedding party The Iranian Red Crescent says a child was among those killed when shrapnel from a US strike hit a home. The US military says it is aware of the reports and it never targets civilians. Just now 4 hrs ago US aircraft carrier docks near Thai beach resort Pattaya after record 250 days at sea The USS Lincoln is docking close to Pattaya, known for its raucous nightlife, and for sex tourism. 4 hrs ago 5 hrs ago Pennsylvania officer charged in death of student who knocked at wrong door The police officer shot Glenwood Earl Pysher, 22, as he walked towards him with hands up, say prosecutors. 5 hrs ago 5 hrs ago Apple Maps renames Lake Ontario as Lake America after Trump order The iPhone maker follows rival technology giant Google in relabelling the Great Lake. 5 hrs ago 6 hrs ago Tiger Woods to change plea after crash arrest The golfer will be in court on Wednesday for a hearing to change his plea after being charged with driving under the influence. 6 hrs ago Home News Sport Business Technology Health Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Documentaries Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages The BBC is in multiple languages Read the BBC In your own language BBC News Brasil BBC News Mundo (Spanish) BBC News မြန်မာ (Burmese) BBC News 中文 (Chinese) BBC News Indonesia BBC News 코리아 (Korean) BBC News ไทย (Thai) BBC News Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) BBC News Azərbaycanca (Azeri) BBC News Magyarul (Hungarian) BBC News Кыргыз Кызматы (Kyrgyz) BBC News Polska (Polish) BBC News România (Romanian) BBC News Русская служба (Russian) BBC News na srpskom (Serbian) BBC News Україна (Ukrainian) BBC News O'zbek (Uzbek) BBC News عربي (Arabic) BBC News فارسی (Persian) BBC News Türkçe (Turkish) BBC News বাংলা (Bengali) BBC News دری (Dari) BBC News ગુજરાતી (Gujarati) BBC News हिन्दी (Hindi) BBC News मराठी (Marathi) BBC News नेपाली (Nepali) BBC News සිංහල (Sinhala) BBC News پښتو (Pashto) BBC News ਪੰਜਾਬੀ (Punjabi) BBC News Afaan Oromoo BBC News አማርኛ (Amharic) BBC News Afrique (French) BBC News Hausa BBC News Gaelic NAIDHEACHDAN BBC News Ìgbò BBC News Japanese 日本語 BBC News Gahuza BBC News Pidgin BBC News Somali BBC News Swahili BBC News தமிழ் (Tamil) BBC News తెలుగు (Telugu) BBC News ትግርኛ (Tigrinya) BBC News اردو (Urdu) BBC News Yorùbá BBC News World Service Follow BBC on: Terms of Use Subscription Terms About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info BBC.com Help & FAQs Content Index Set Preferred Source Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.