9 Best Scalp Acne Shampoos of 2026 | NBC Selected IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Top stories Owala’s back-to-school sale is here The best keratosis pilaris treatments for smoother skin Packing your skin care and makeup is so much easier with this toiletry bag How often should you change and wash your towels REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gearpost, REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gear Walmart has up to 65% off back-to-school must-haves 35+ college-exclusive back-to-school deals Skip to Content About Us Wellness All Wellness Skin Care Hair Care Oral Care Health Fitness Sleep Home All Home Small appliances Bedding & bath Cleaning Vacuums Office Gardening Kitchen All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech All Tech Electronics Personal Tech TVs Audio Computers Cameras Pets All Pets Dogs Cats Pet Care Lifestyle All Lifestyle Sports Travel Parenting Apparel Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping Subscribe Share About Us Wellness Main Menu All Wellness Skin Care Wellness All Skin Care Hair Care Wellness All Hair Care Oral Care Wellness All Oral Care Health Wellness All Health Fitness Wellness All Fitness Sleep Wellness All Sleep Home Main Menu All Home Small appliances Home All Small appliances Bedding & bath Home All Bedding & bath Cleaning Home All Cleaning Vacuums Home All Vacuums Office Home All Office Gardening Kitchen Main Menu All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech Main Menu All Tech Electronics Tech All Electronics Personal Tech Tech All Personal Tech TVs Tech All TVs Audio Tech All Audio Computers Cameras Pets Main Menu All Pets Dogs Pets All Dogs Cats Pets All Cats Pet Care Pets All Pet Care Lifestyle Main Menu All Lifestyle Sports Travel Lifestyle All Travel Parenting Apparel Lifestyle All Apparel Footwear Lifestyle All Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales Main Menu All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories Main Menu All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides Main Menu All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping More from NBC Sign up for the Selected Newsletter Check out Shop TODAY NBC News TODAY About Help Careers Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information CA Notice Terms Of Service NBC News Sitemap Advertise Ad Choices Follow Selected © 2026 NBCNEWS.COM NBC Selected independently determines what we cover and recommend. When you click on or buy through our links, we earn a commission. Learn more . Hair Care The best scalp acne shampoos and treatments, according to dermatologists Salicylic acid, tea tree oil and benzoyl peroxide are key ingredients to look for in a product. Updated Aug. 4, 2026, 4:56 PM EDT Nicole Saunders Former Associate Commerce Editor Ashley Morris Associate SEO Reporter Skip to table of contents We rounded up expert-recommended scalp acne shampoos from Dove, Neutrogena and more. Kara Birnbaum / NBC News In this article Our top picks The best scalp acne shampoos and treatments of 2026 How to shop for scalp acne shampoo Frequently asked questions Meet our dermatologists Why trust NBC Selected? See 3 More When it comes to acne , nowhere on your body is safe — breakouts can appear on your scalp or hairline, felt, but not seen. Scalp acne consists of whiteheads and blemishes directly on the scalp caused by excess sebum, says board-certified dermatologist Dr. Steven Shapiro , founder of Shapiro MD hair care line . We interviewed dermatologists and hair experts about the best ways to treat and prevent scalp acne, including which ingredients to look out for and avoid, along with our go-to product recommendations. Updated August 2026 to reflect new testing and product availability. Selected. Our top picks Best for dry scalps Neutrogena T/Sal Therapeutic Shampoo $undefined $7.79 Target Learn more Best scalp acne treatment Differin Acne Treatment Gel $10.49 $14.99 Amazon Learn more Best splurge Ouai Anti Dandruff Shampoo $undefined $38.00 Amazon Learn more Related selected selected Scalp massagers may promote hair growth — here are the best ones to shop Want more from NBC Selected? Sign up for our newsletter, The Selection, and shop smarter. The best scalp acne shampoos and treatments of 2026 All of the products below come recommended by experts and are made with common pimple-fighting ingredients, including salicylic acid and glycolic acid . Regardless of which product you use, you may notice an immediate drying effect. Don’t worry — scalp acne can take a few days to heal, says board-certified dermatologist Dr. Jessie Cheung . Best for dry scalps Neutrogena T/Sal Therapeutic Shampoo $ 7.79 Target $ 7.77 Walmart What to know Active ingredients: salicylic acid | Size: 4.5 fl oz | Scent: n/a What we like Works after a single use Removes oil Good for scaliness Something to note Formula can be drying Board-certified dermatologist Dr. Debra Jaliman recommends Neutrogena’s T/Sal Therapeutic Shampoo because it has salicylic acid, a common hair and skin care ingredient that helps to unclogs hair follicles and remove excess sebum. T/Sal is also dermatologist Dr. Rina Allawh ’s favorite shampoo for dandruff in our shampoo guide . It’s a powerful keratolytic, meaning it helps to remove thick, scaly patches from the scalp, she says. Best for oily hair Garnier Fructis Pure Clean Shampoo 23,284 Amazon Reviews $ 3.96 $ 5.99 Amazon Now 34% off $ 3.99 Target $ 4.99 $ 5.29 CVS Now 6% off What to know Active ingredients: salicylic acid, niacinamide | Size: 12.5 fl oz | Scent: citrus What we like Gentle Hydrates hair Something to note Can leave scalp feeling dry If you have oily hair , King recommends this Garnier Fructis option for less buildup and managing greasiness. Salicylic acid helps to exfoliate the scalp and remove residue, she says. It also has niacinamide , which helps support scalp health, and glycerin and aloe, which hydrates and soothes the scalp, says King. Best color-safe shampoo Paul Mitchell Tea Tree Special Shampoo 60,176 Amazon Reviews $ 20.00 Amazon $ 20.00 Ulta $ 20.00 Paul Mitchell What to know Active ingredients: tea tree oil | Size: 10.14 fl oz | Scent: tea tree What we like Relieves scalp irritation Treats and softens hair Something to note Has a strong scent Certified trichologist (hair health expert) William Gaunitz calls this highly rated shampoo his “go-to” for scalp acne. The paraben-free, color-safe shampoo relies on tea tree oil, which decreases surface bacteria, to rid hair of impurities and soothe the scalp, says Cheung. Best splurge Cln Shampoo 4,782 Amazon Reviews $ 36.00 Amazon $ 36.00 CLn Skin Care $ 36.00 Walmart What to know Active ingredients: salicylic acid | Size: 8 fl oz | Scent: n/a What we like Skin-balancing formula Something to note Pricier than other options This CLn shampoo is great for cleansing without stripping your scalp of moisture, says Cheng. Though this shampoo is more expensive than the drugstore options on this list, it’s a worthy investment thanks to its gentle, salicylic acid formula, says Cheung. Best scalp acne treatment gel Differin Acne Treatment Gel 71,556 Amazon Reviews $ 10.49 $ 14.99 Amazon Now 30% off $ 13.48 Walmart $ 13.49 Target What to know Active ingredients: adapalene | Size: 15 grams | Scent: n/a What we like Safe for all skin types Helps treat acne scarring Affordable price Something to note May take longer for results Before you ask — yes, you can use acne spot treatments formulated for your face on your scalp. They might be messy because they likely won’t blend into your hair, but they’re still functional against scalp acne in a pinch, says Cheung. Differin has adapalene, a popular retinoid known for treating blackheads, teen acne and adult acne. The results are not immediate; it can take up to 12 weeks for acne to clear up, according to the brand. Best splurge Ouai Anti Dandruff Shampoo 792 Amazon Reviews $ 38.00 Amazon $ 38.00 Ulta $ 38.00 Sephora What to know Key ingredients: salicylic acid | Size: 10 fl oz | Scent: earthy with notes of ginger and spearmint What we like High active concentration Good for flaky scalps Reduces irritation Something to note Strong fragrance This anti-dandruff shampoo has a 2% salicylic acid concentration to help treat dry, flaky scalps without irritation, according to the brand. If you like fresh scents, this shampoo’s fragrance may be right up your alley — it includes notes of tomato leaves, spearmint, wet grass, basil, ginger and more. It’s also color-safe. Best dry shampoo Carter + Jane Scalpfix $ 34.00 Carter + Jane What to know Active ingredients: witch hazel, peppermint oil, rosemary oil | Size: 4 oz | Scent: rosemary, floral What we like Quick and easy to use Can also be used as a toner Something to note Less effective for severe case Zeichner recommends using Carter + Jane’s Scalp Fix dry shampoo if you’re unable to shampoo your hair frequently. Witch hazel and peppermint oil help soothe the scalp and remove excess oil, according to Zeichner, which can improve flakes and scalp acne. It’s also formulated with rosemary oil, which Zeichner says has astringent benefits. Best with tea tree oil Ovante Folliculite Solution Shampoo 1,786 Amazon Reviews $ 19.90 Amazon $ 34.99 Ovante What to know Active ingredients: lactic acid, sulfur, tea tree oil | Size: 6 fl oz | Scent: lemongrass What we like Can help relief scalp pain Something to note Very strong scent Pricier than other options Ovante's shampoo is great for treating scalp acne because it has tea tree oil, which has antibacterial properties, says Jaliman. It also has lactic acid, a popular type of alpha hydroxy acid that helps unclog pores, she says. The brand recommends using one to two tablespoons of shampoo on your wet hair and scalp and letting it soak for up to five minutes before rinsing. View this post on Instagram A post shared by NBC Select (@nbcselect) How to shop for scalp acne shampoo Our dermatologists recommend focusing on specific ingredients when shopping for shampoos, gels, sprays and other scalp acne treatments. What are the best ingredients for a scalp acne shampoo? King says that salicylic acid is key: “It penetrates into pores to gently exfoliate and remove excess oils,” and is an “excellent comedolytic,” meaning it inhibits the formation of blemishes. “If you are prone to acne on the scalp and/or body areas adjacent to the scalp, then try a shampoo that contains salicylic acid.” Cheung is also a fan of hair care products that have tea tree oil , sulfur and benzoyl peroxide , all of which decrease surface bacteria. Shampoo made with coal tar “decreases inflammation while exfoliating the scalp” and dandruff shampoos will minimize oil production, says Cheung. Lastly, Zeichner recommends keeping an eye out for zinc pyrithione , which he says “helps lower levels of yeast on the scalp that contribute to pimples to begin with.” What ingredients should you avoid? As for the ingredients you shouldn't be using, Cheung suggests avoiding: Sulfates , which produce lather to clean the scalp but “can cause excessive drying which leads to irritation,” she says. Dimethicone , which smoothes dry hair but can cause build up on the scalp. Triclosan , a “controversial antimicrobial” because it can act as a hormone disruptor, says Cheung. Frequently asked questions What causes scalp acne? An overgrowth of yeast can be a potential trigger for scalp acne. “This is the same thing that contributes to flaking and dandruff,” says Zeichner. Tucked under your hair, scalp acne might not be as glaring as a huge zit on your nose, but it’s still a nuisance. Sometimes, what looks like acne on your scalp could be folliculitis , according to the American Academy of Dermatology (folliculitis is the catch-all medical term for the number of ways a hair follicle can become inflamed). Or, it could just be regular acne. Scalps are loaded with oil glands and the buildup of dead skin, oil and hair products can create a perfect environment for bacterial overgrowth that leads to pimples, says Cheung, who adds that sweat, friction and humidity can also cause scalp acne. How can someone prevent scalp acne? An easy way to prevent scalp acne is to switch up the products you use or modify how you use them. Oil-based hair care products“block oil from being released from pore or follicular openings,” says board-certified dermatologist Dr. Lindsey Bordone of Columbia University Medical Center. She advises swapping out such oil-based items for lighter, water-based styling products. If you prefer using thicker hair styling products, apply them at least an inch away from your scalp to prevent acne, she says. Speaking of application, how you apply your treatments can also make a big difference in their effectiveness. Although a lot of the products are technically called shampoos, it’s important to use them as scalp treatments, says Zeichner. He recommends rubbing them onto your scalp and letting them sit for at least five minutes before rinsing. “This allows the active ingredient to exert its effect on the skin,” he says. The bad news is that if your scalp acne is genetic or hormonal, it’s a bit trickier to treat. Pregnant women, for example, can produce progesterone, a hormone that can cause oil glands to secrete more sebum, which builds up on your scalp, congests your pores and leads to scalp acne, says Shapiro. In those instances, the safest and most effective solution is to book an appointment with a board-certified dermatologist who can help you figure out treatment options. And one last thing: picking. “Don’t do it!” says King. “It will only aggravate the problem, prolonging the time to heal and increasing the risk of infection, inflammation, discoloration and scarring,” she says. Can scalp acne lead to hair loss? No, in mild cases, usually it doesn’t. However, experts warn that severe cases can lead to hair loss due to scarring, hair follicle damage and more. “If there are very inflammatory nodulocystic acne lesions, there could be enough inflammation to lead to scarring, and this could include scarring of hair follicles, which would lead to hair loss,” says King. If hair loss becomes an issue, Zeichner recommends that for those “experiencing scalp, pimples or flaking it’s important to treat it as part of any regimen that treats thinning hair .” Meet our dermatologists At NBC Selected, we work with experts who have specialized knowledge and authority based on relevant training and/or experience. We also take steps to ensure all expert advice and recommendations are made independently and without undisclosed financial conflicts of interest. Dr. Steven Shapiro is a board-certified dermatologist and founder of Shapiro MD hair care line . Dr. Jessie Cheung is a board-certified dermatologist with practices in Chicago, Illinois and New York City. She has also offered her guidance in Select’s guides to the best clarifying shampoos and scalp scrubs . Dr. Hadley King is a board-certified dermatologist in New York City. She has also offered her guidance in Select’s guides to the best drugstore shampoos and razor burn treatments . Dr. Joshua Zeichner is an Associate Professor of Dermatology and the Director of Cosmetic & Clinical Research in Dermatology at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City. He has also offered his guidance in Select’s articles on treating razor burn and preventing adult acne . Dr. Debra Jaliman is a board-certified dermatologist in New York City. She offered her guidance in Select’s guide to the best shampoos for dry scalp . William Gaunitz is a certified trichologist (hair health expert). He has also offered his guidance in Select’s guide to the best drugstore shampoos . Dr. Lindsey Bordone is a board-certified dermatologist in the Department of Dermatology of Columbia University Medical Center. Why trust NBC Selected? Nicole Saunders is a former associate commerce editor for NBC Selected. Ashley Morris is an associate SEO reporter covering skin care, wellness, and more for NBC Selected. For this article, we spoke to experts — including trichologists and board-certified dermatologists — to find out everything you need to know about scalp acne shampoos and treatments. Catch up on NBC Selected’s in-depth coverage of tech and tools , wellness and more, and follow us on Facebook , Instagram , Twitter and TikTok to stay up to date. Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off Nicole Saunders Nicole Saunders is a former associate commerce editor for NBC Selected. The best scalp acne shampoos and treatments, according to dermatologists The best at-home blackhead treatments, according to dermatologists The best at-home blackhead treatments, according to dermatologists Latest articles Ashley Morris Ashley Morris is an associate SEO reporter for NBC Selected. Her expertise is in skin care, wellness and home and kitchen. The best scalp acne shampoos and treatments, according to dermatologists All the glow, none of the grease — the best hyaluronic acid products we've tested The 81+ best new products this month from Hoka, Béis, Sony, Olaplex and more Latest articles Christina Colizza contributed . Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off In this article Our top picks The best scalp acne shampoos and treatments of 2026 How to shop for scalp acne shampoo Frequently asked questions Meet our dermatologists Why trust NBC Selected? ABOUT CONTACT HELP CAREERS PRIVACY POLICY DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION CA NOTICE TERMS OF SERVICE NBC NEWS SITEMAP AD CHOICES ADVERTISE DEALS & SALES SKIN CARE HEALTH TECH NBCNews.com © 2026 SELECTED | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.