Oil tumbles after Bessent says Hormuz deal may come this week Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Oil Prices and News Oil prices tumble after Bessent says Strait of Hormuz deal may come this week Published Mon, Aug 3 2026 9:24 PM EDT Updated 3 Hours Ago Spencer Kimball @spencekimball Fred Imbert @foimbert WATCH LIVE In this article @LCO.1 @CL.1 Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 5:04 05:04 Treasury Secretary Bessent: We may have a deal today or tomorrow to open the Strait of Hormuz Squawk Box Oil prices fell sharply Tuesday after Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent indicated there may be a deal to open the Strait of Hormuz as soon as this week. Brent , the international oil benchmark, slid 5.3% to close at $79.36 per barrel. West Texas Intermediate futures lost 5.7% to settle at $75.77. "We are in talks with the Iranians," Bessent told CNBC's "Squawk Box." "There is a chance we may have a deal today or tomorrow to open the Strait and move towards a more normalized position in this conflict." "It would be freedom of movement," the Treasury Secretary said when asked whether Iran would be allowed to charge a toll. Tehran is considering allowing European countries to clear mines from Hormuz, diplomats familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News . Mines in the strait are one of the biggest obstacles to normalizing traffic. President Donald Trump said over the weekend that he called off a major attack on Iran to allow for negotiations over Hormuz. The U.S. and Iran signed a deal on June 17 to reopen the strait but that agreement quickly collapsed. Iran wants commercial ships to transit through Hormuz using the Islamic Republic's territorial waters. It has repeatedly attacked vessels sailing through the strait along Oman's coast under U.S. military protection. A cargo ship was struck Monday by an unknown projectile about 20 nautical miles northeast of Al Khasab, Oman, according to an incident report from the United Kingdom Maritime Trade Operations Centre. "Iran is unlikely to agree to any deal without getting control of the Strait, and thus we view any potential deal as being highly likely to fail at this point," said Ryan McKay, director of commodity strategy at TD Securities. Oil exports through Hormuz are unlikely to surge after a deal, McKay said in a Tuesday note. Flows "are already in line with what the current production recovery would imply, suggesting the upside for flows, even under a comprehensive deal, is minimal," the strategist said. WTI intraday Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by