Women in Maine may choose the victor in this year's Senate race : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Women in Maine may choose the victor in this year's Senate race The race between Susan Collins and Troy Jackson is one of the nation's most high-profile Senate contests this year -- and may ultimately be decided by an especially powerful voting bloc: Maine women. Elections Women in Maine may choose the victor in this year's Senate race August 7, 2026 4:24 PM ET Heard on All Things Considered Elena Moore Women in Maine may choose the victor in this year's Senate race Listen · 4:38 4-Minute Listen Playlist Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5915655/nx-s1-9879973" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Transcript The race between Susan Collins and Troy Jackson is one of the nation's most high-profile Senate contests this year — and may ultimately be decided by an especially powerful voting bloc: Maine women. Sponsor Message Transcript MARY LOUISE KELLY, HOST: The race for U.S. Senate in Maine is poised to be one of the most competitive of the midterms. It's a choice between incumbent Republican Susan Collins and Democrat Troy Jackson. To win in November, both need the support of an especially powerful voting bloc, Maine women. NPR's Elena Moore reports. ELENA MOORE, BYLINE: On an 89-acre flower farm in Belmont, Maine, Stacy Leafsong is finishing up some arrangements for a wedding. With pops of blue and white, the flowers mirror the colors of the coast, which is just a short drive away from here. STACY LEAFSONG: I do flowers seven days a week, literally live and breathe flowers. MOORE: She says she built this farm from scratch and as a single mom. She's also a progressive activist and, last year on the farm, hosted the first fundraiser for Graham Platner's Senate bid. Since then, she watched his rise and then fall. Platner dropped out last month over rape allegations, which he denies. Leafsong had already denounced him by then, disturbed by previous reports about his behavior. As a domestic violence survivor herself, watching Mainers stick by him upset her. LEAFSONG: I know people are incredibly stressed, and I think people are really scared, so there's that explanation. But I also think that his campaign was incredibly toxic in a lot of ways. MOORE: Now Leafsong is backing the party's new pick, Troy Jackson, a progressive former state senator, and she hopes he can really speak to Maine women. LEAFSONG: Women's issues are much more than childcare and abortion. There are so many complex issues in the state. MOORE: Whether he can do that may determine his chances of defeating Susan Collins, and that could prove expensive. According to AdImpact, Republicans have already spent millions on ads trying to link Platner to Jackson, seizing on reports that he has a short temper. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) UNIDENTIFIED PERSON: Disturbing news about threats of violence against women. Is it Graham Platner again? No, it's Troy Jackson. MOORE: Unlike Platner, Jackson has never been accused of sexual violence towards women, but there have been accounts of him getting into shouting matches with colleagues during his time as a state lawmaker. It's something he's apologized for and says he's always tried to treat colleagues with respect. To understand why these ads may hold weight, look at Maine's electorate. EMILY CAIN: Women voters in Maine are the majority of voters. And so you have to take them seriously. MOORE: That's Democrat Emily Cain. She's a former state senator and the previous executive director of EMILYs List, an organization that backs women candidates who support abortion rights. CAIN: Independents are, you know, almost a third of voters in Maine. But the majority of voters are women who are older. So the people who decide statewide races are independents who are also a majority women. MOORE: Collins has survived tough elections before, but 2026 is the first time she's on the ballot since Roe v. Wade was overturned. She's long considered herself pro-choice, but in 2018, her vote was crucial in confirming Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court, growing a conservative majority that went on to eliminate the constitutional right to an abortion. Speaking to reporters earlier this summer, Collins said she doesn't regret her vote. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) SUSAN COLLINS: Obviously, I'm disappointed in that decision, which turned abortion issues back to the states. It has not had an impact on the state of Maine. MOORE: Jackson still plans to make it an issue. He's evolved on the topic, initially entering politics as an abortion rights opponent, then shifting left and voting to expand access in recent years. Speaking to Maine Public Radio last month, he argued he's the better advocate on the issue. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED NPR CONTENT) TROY JACKSON: I'm rock solid on this now, and Susan has been the opposite. MOORE: But in the end, these issues may come second for many voters. Diana Kushnar is a Republican running for state House. Talking with women on the campaign trail, she says their primary concern is high costs. DIANA KUSHNAR: They're worried about whether they can afford a home and - because the rising utility bills, the cost of raising a family, and then just access to healthcare and whether their children will have even a reason to stay in Maine. MOORE: Many share those concerns across the aisle, but there's also a desire for leadership change. Kelli Brennan, a nurse and union leader, feels that way. KELLI BRENNAN: I think, for women in Maine, what we need right now is somebody who understands the working class. MOORE: And from nurses and teachers to single moms, Brennan says the working class very much includes women. Elena Moore, NPR News. (SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC) Copyright © 2026 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. Accuracy and availability of NPR transcripts may vary. Transcript text may be revised to correct errors or match updates to audio. Audio on npr.org may be edited after its original broadcast or publication. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record. Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Environment EPA issues new rules for controversial herbicide, but opponents worry dangers remain A tale of two very different horny movies Investigations A new investigative podcast uncovers new evidence in death of young BLM protester Elections Redistricting played a part in Tennessee's primary election results Music The boy band that's pushing the boundaries of immigration law Politics Maine Democrats pick Troy Jackson to replace Graham Platner in Senate race More Stories From NPR Elections Data centers are a political issue crossing party lines, driving voters to candidates Elections Here are Hawaii's 2026 primary election results Elections Here are Tennessee's 2026 primary election results Consider This from NPR What do Tuesday’s primaries signal about where the Democratic Party is headed? Politics Progressive Abdul El-Sayed wins Michigan's Democratic primary for Senate Elections Progressives see biggest win yet in Michigan, while Trump flexes power over GOP Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Pop Culture Happy Hour A tale of two very different horny movies World Switzerland is a neutral nation but has more nuclear bunkers than any country in the world Family Amid cost of living stress, many parents are supporting children well into adulthood The Picture Show The Women's Professional Baseball League makes its historic debut Shots - Health News Take The ACE Quiz — And Learn What It Does And Doesn't Mean Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! 'Wait Wait' for August 1, 2026: Live in Sonoma with Mary Roach! NPR Editors' Picks The Americas K-pop's global wave inspires Chile's next pop stars Health Reporting in the States Federal funds can't be used to give test strips to drug users, raising overdose fears Immigration Private prisons announce $1.4 billion in revenue as immigration detentions climb The Ripple Effect How Jim James and Jeff Tweedy learned to love the Grateful Dead Politics Senate votes to confirm Todd Blanche as attorney general Economy Trump renews push to fire Fed Governor Lisa Cook Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices