Sweetgreen cuts full-year outlook as cyclospora fears weigh on sales Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Restaurants Sweetgreen cuts full-year outlook as cyclospora fears weigh on sales Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 4:40 PM EDT Updated Thu, Aug 6 2026 5:24 PM EDT Amelia Lucas @Thxamelian WATCH LIVE Key Points Sweetgreen cut its full-year outlook as consumers' cyclospora fears weighed on its sales. The salad chain has not been implicated in the ongoing outbreak. Other restaurant chains not linked to the contaminated iceberg lettuce have also seen their sales fall. In this article SG Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Pedestrians pass by a Sweetgreen restaurant on Aug. 4, 2026 in San Francisco, California. Heather Diehl | Getty Images Sweetgreen on Thursday cut its full-year outlook and is now projecting steeper same-store sales declines due to diner fears of eating fresh produce during the ongoing cyclospora outbreak. Shares of the salad chain fell more than 15% in extended trading. Sweetgreen has not been implicated in the ongoing outbreak that has sickened at least 10,000 people and led to two deaths, according to data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . The Food and Drug Administration has pointed to iceberg lettuce supplied by a Taylor Farms facility in central Mexico as the likely culprit, and the contaminated products have been recalled. The only nationwide restaurant chain linked to the outbreak is Yum Brands' Taco Bell, which is already seeing sales bounce back . Still, fear of the waterborne parasite has weighed on many consumers' desire for fresh produce, particularly salad. "The Company's updated outlook reflects reduced consumer demand for fresh prepared foods due to the multistate outbreak of cyclosporiasis since mid-July," Sweetgreen said in a statement. "The pace and timing of recovery remain uncertain." For 2026, the company is now projecting its annual same-store sales could shrink 7% to 8%. Its previous forecast anticipated same-store sales declines of just 2% to 4%. Sweetgreen is also expecting to report an adjusted loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $27 million to $23 million. It was previously forecasting earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $1 million to $6 million. Other restaurant chains not linked to the contaminated iceberg lettuce have also seen their sales fall. Chipotle Mexican Grill said in late July that cyclospora fears had about a 2 percentage point impact on sales in the second half of July. Salad and Go , an already struggling chain, filed for bankruptcy protection on Tuesday, saying that consumer mistrust from the outbreak exacerbated its ongoing business challenges. Sweetgreen also reported its second-quarter results after the bell on Thursday. Its quarterly loss was steeper than expected, and its revenue fell short of Wall Street's expectations. Correction: This story has been revised to reflect that Sweetgreen reported its second-quarter results after the bell on Thursday. A previous version misstated the day. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by