Burger King tops Wendy's as nation's second-largest burger chain Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Restaurants Burger King overtakes Wendy's as the nation's second-largest burger chain Published Fri, Aug 7 2026 2:19 PM EDT Amelia Lucas @Thxamelian WATCH LIVE Key Points Burger King is once again the second-largest burger chain in the U.S. by systemwide sales. The chain's successful turnaround has helped it unseat Wendy's from the number two spot. McDonald's still maintains its lead by a wide margin. In this article QSR MCD WEN Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Burger King and Wendy's signage. Getty Images Burger King has overtaken Wendy's as the second-largest burger chain in the U.S. by systemwide sales, retaking its crown six years after losing it to the rival chain. The change in positions follows the two companies' diverging results over the past two years. Wendy's has reported shrinking U.S. same-store sales for six straight quarters. Its domestic same-store sales slipped 7% in its latest quarter, the company reported on Friday. Meanwhile, Burger King has been embarking on a turnaround and has seen its domestic same-store sales rise over the past five quarters; the Restaurant Brands International chain on Thursday reported U.S. same-store sales growth of 8.5% for its second quarter . McDonald's holds onto its spot as the number one burger chain, with a significant lead. Although the company only reports its systemwide sales on a global basis, it held about 48% of the U.S. burger market share in 2024, according to Barclays. For comparison, at that time, Wendy's had an 11.4% share of the market, while Burger King had a 10% hold. Wendy's initially overtook Burger King through the success of its nationwide breakfast launch. But staying number two has been a rocky road. Both Wendy's and Burger King had to navigate the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent supply chain issues that led to soaring food costs. Then came the consumer pushback against rising menu prices and a pullback in restaurant spending. In late 2022, Restaurant Brands announced a turnaround plan for Burger King's U.S. business after a year of lackluster sales. The strategy has focused on improving its food quality, investing in marketing and remodeling restaurants. While Burger King tried to find its footing, Wendy's was dealing with a revolving door of chief executives at a time when consumers were growing even more value conscious and beef costs were soaring. In 2024, Wendy's longtime CEO Todd Penegor retired after eight years in the role. PepsiCo executive Kirk Tanner succeeded him but left after a little more than a year to lead Hershey's. CFO Ken Cook took over as interim CEO until Wendy's tapped former Potbelly CEO Bob Wright as his permanent replacement in May. "Our quality differentiation has eroded, our value proposition has weakened, and we have not consistently delivered the experience customers expect from Wendy's," Wright said on the company's earnings conference call on Friday. "These issues have weighed on traffic and created pressure on the restaurant economic model, which is the heartbeat of this business, and this is reflected in our latest results." Now Wendy's is planning to embark on its own turnaround to revive sales, meaning that Burger King can't rest on its laurels. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by