Gianni Infantino: Opponents threaten 'non co-operation' with Fifa - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland Quizzes News Feeds Help & FAQs Football Scores & Fixtures Tables Follow Your Team Premier League Gossip Transfers Women European Leagues & Cups Quizzes Infantino opponents threaten 'non co-operation' with Fifa Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Gianni Infantino has been in charge of Fifa for 10 years By Dan Roan , Sports editor and Mandeep Sanghera , BBC Sport journalist Published 3 August 2026 Opponents of Fifa president Gianni Infantino are threatening "non co-operation" with the governing body unless he steps down, according to senior Uefa sources. Some of those involved in the rebellion vow "there is no going back" for as long as Infantino remains in position, as the fallout over his scrapped plans to sell off stakes in Fifa competitions to private investors intensifies. While the details of the proposed disruption remain unclear, one senior figure said they would "certainly expect" a refusal to participate in Fifa meetings. It comes after European football's governing body Uefa threatened legal action over the proposals, and Wales publicly withdrew backing for Infantino's bid for a fourth term as Fifa president, with England's Football Association set to follow suit. In March, Infantino is set to stand for re-election for a final term as president and would need 106 votes from Fifa's 211 members to win. Sources have told BBC Sport the Scottish FA's position on the future of Infantino remains aligned with Uefa's lack of confidence in the 56-year-old. Infantino's leadership had already been publicly questioned by football's governing bodies in Europe, North and Central America and the Caribbean, with Uefa and Concacaf releasing statements criticising the plans. As the pressure grows on Infantino with Serbia, Sweden and Finland also withdrawing their support, Morocco, Qatar, Lebanon, Kuwait and Sri Lanka among the countries to have pledged their support for his Fifa leadership to continue. Uefa has 55 votes, Africa 54, Asia 46, Concacaf 35, Oceania 11 and Conmebol 10. The Asian Football Federation (AFC) has said it stands in "solidarity" with Uefa and Concacaf, while Africa, Conmebol and Oceania have not criticised Infantino's plan. However, the Fifa Council could try to force Infantino to resign through an emergency meeting. That would be triggered if 19 of the 37 Fifa Council members call for one and the meeting must take place within two weeks. Uefa has nine members, AFC has seven, Concacaf five, Africa has six, Conmebol five and Oceania three. It is completed by Infantino and secretary general Mattias Grafstrom. Fifa and Infantino wanted to create a commercial subsidiary to run its main events, including its World Cups, and external investors would have been able to buy stakes in it. World football's governing body said it would "invite third parties to make minority, non-controlling investments" in a new subsidiary called Fifa Forward Enterprise (FFE). As first reported by The Telegraph, Uefa said in a letter to Infantino "it is actively considering legal action, arbitration, and/or regulatory complaints (together, the 'proceedings') arising out of and in connection with the FFE plan proposed by Fifa". Uefa added it wants "immediate steps" to "preserve all documents and electronically stored information" in Fifa's possession "independent" of their internal policies that may result in "routine document destruction or deletion". BBC Sport has approached Fifa for comment. If Infantino goes, who might replace him as Fifa president? Published 3 August A bruising 24 hours - what next for Fifa and under-pressure Infantino? Published 1 August Is Infantino finished? Could Uefa boycott World Cup? What happens now? Published 31 July Infantino wrote to all 211 Fifa member associations saying they would receive $40m (£30m) if they backed his controversial proposal, setting a deadline of 19 September if they wanted to access an initial $20m (£15m). Thrive Eternal was expected to lead the proposed investor group for FFE. Thrive is an American venture capital firm founded by Joshua Kushner - the brother of US President Donald Trump's son-in-law Jared. Uefa's request for all documents regarding the investment plan, included "email, instant messages (WhatsApp, Signal, Teams, Slack or any other platform), SMS, written correspondence and meeting notes", and those which involved "any Fifa officer, employee, committee member, consultant or agent, or any Fifa member association, confederation, broadcaster, sponsor, or financial institution". In reference to the 19 September deadline, Uefa added it wanted documents to be retained "relating to the payment structure for Fifa member associations, including the design, modelling, legal basis, approval and communications to member associations". Uefa asked Infantino to acknowledge receipt of its letter in writing within five business days, to confirm he had "received and understood this notice" and that he has "taken immediate steps to preserve relevant materials as required". Uefa vice-president Laura McAllister described the prospect of legal action by European football's governing body as "a very clear call for action really for what's been an abysmal governance process leading up to the FFE initiative". Speaking to BBC Radio 5 Live, she added: "We need to learn from this disastrous process to make sure that we have accountability chains in hand to ensure that it doesn't happen again." She hopes others will follow in withdrawing their support for Infantino in what "is a big moment in the history of football". "We cannot keep putting out fires because of unilateral plans," said McAllister. "I really hope now that we can have a change of leadership next year." Figure caption, Former FA Chairman David Bernstein on Gianni Infantino's future as Fifa president Analysis - 'Tactics to isolate Infantino' By Dan Roan Sports editor While a growing list of national associations withdrawing their letters of support appears to add to the pressure on Infantino, it is effectively underlining the opposition that became clear at the weekend, when they backed Uefa's loss of confidence in the beleaguered Fifa president. They are also currently limited to European countries, although that could change. The threat of non co-operation with Fifa as long as Infantino remains in post, and of legal action, could be more significant. These tactics are designed to act as leverage, and make Infantino more isolated. If it fails to persuade him to step down, the rebels at Uefa and Concacaf will hope they can persuade countries elsewhere to join the revolt, especially in Asia, which now appears a key battleground. Uefa knows it has to avoid being perceived as telling the rest of the world what to do, and it is clear that Infantino retains considerable support in South America and Africa. World football has rarely - if ever - appeared more divided, and Infantino's opponents will now be trying to identify a unifying challenger to stand against him next year - if he refuses to quit before then. Related topics Football More on this story Faisal Islam: Four reasons why Fifa's World Cup plan never stacked up Published 1 August Follow your club with BBC Sport Published 8 June Get football news sent straight to your phone Published 1 day ago Shorts Previous Next 0:46 'This loss will be the making of him' Peet on Itauma defeat 00:00:46, play video 'This loss will be the making of him' Peet on Itauma defeat 0:38 Can Liverpool get Isak get firing? 00:00:38, play video Can Liverpool get Isak get firing? 1:02 Spurs fan - We should've got Liam Delap. 00:01:02, play video Spurs fan - We should've got Liam Delap 0:18 'Terminator' Hrgovic has one of the 'best chins in boxing' 00:00:18, play video 'Terminator' Hrgovic has one of the 'best chins in boxing' 0:27 Jake Paul is giving women's boxing a huge platform - Kamale. 00:00:27, play video Jake Paul is giving women's boxing a huge platform - Kamale 0:49 US Open players complain of cannabis smell. 00:00:49, play video US Open players complain of cannabis smell 1:11 What will Barcola bring to Liverpool? 00:01:11, play video What will Barcola bring to Liverpool? 0:38 Things get intense in the watchalong studio... 00:00:38, play video Things get intense in the watchalong studio... 0:33 Alex Scott responds to transfer speculation? 00:00:33, play video Alex Scott responds to transfer speculation? 0:26 Does Virgil van Dijk need more protection? 00:00:26, play video Does Virgil van Dijk need more protection? 0:27 'You can't play that!' - Gay trapped lbw. 00:00:27, play video 'You can't play that!' - Gay trapped lbw 0:40 McLaren contract extension 'easy decision' for Norris. 00:00:40, play video McLaren contract extension 'easy decision' for Norris 0:44 The worst thing about being a boxer. 00:00:44, play video The worst thing about being a boxer Top stories Itauma punches himself out against Hrgovic in world-title fight Published 47 minutes ago Man City open talks with Liverpool over Gakpo Published 3 hours ago £300m spent, bottom of the table... but Spurs boss De Zerbi 'not angry' Published 2 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC Low-key noughties sitcom starring Robert Webb and Paula Wilcox An immersive concert of ambient and classical soundscapes An action-revenge thriller steeped in mythology, starring Dev Patel Is crying good for you? Elsewhere in Sport £300m spent, bottom of the table... but Spurs boss De Zerbi 'not angry' 'That trust isn't there' - how does Iraola get best out of Isak? 'Not bad for the worst team in Premier League history' - Hull's perfect start A magician and a maverick - this could be Cherki's moment for Man City Lampard 'somewhere in the middle' of Mourinho and Ancelotti How England are building an attack to trouble Australia Division, drama and power - what next for Infantino and Uefa? Sutton's predictions v Royal Blood drummer Ben Thatcher 'A generational icon' - why wildcards abound for Venus Williams Have expensively assembled Rangers improved at all under 'mortified' McInnes? Villa sign Goretzka - what went wrong at Bayern and what will he bring? Why Herrera is playing for free in Spanish third division Are left-handers better and when will Root catch Tendulkar? Cricket Q&A Sir Billy Boston - 'the world-class athlete, whose story deserved to be told' Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.