Family identify two killed in apparent murder-suicide in Owasso Skip to main content Download the App Get your news faster with our mobile experience Install News Weather Local Living Oklahoma Money Watch Live Now 89 ° Wed 100 ° Thu 99 ° Watch Family identify two killed in apparent murder-suicide in Owasso by KTUL.com News Staff Fri, July 24, 2026 at 7:16 AM Updated Mon, July 27, 2026 at 3:15 PM KTUL 0 Comment Share topics: Owasso Police Double shooting Domestic dispute Fatal shooting Gunshot wounds Juvenile Investigation OWASSO, Okla. (KTUL) — OWASSO, Okla. — The Owasso Police Department is investigating after a shooting left two people dead Thursday night. According to Owasso Police, around 8:12 p.m. on June 9th, Owasso Police received a Sex Crime report from a parent and child. The report stated the crime took place an hour before the two came into the Owasso Police Headquarters. According to the report, the sex crime took place at an elementary school near 1500 North Ash Street in Owasso. Police said that they discovered a basketball coach of a competitive, traveling team inappropriately touched a female child on the team inside of the school during an event. The coach was identified by Owasso Police as Jeremiah Shawn Duffey. Police said similar actions by this coach had been reported over an extended period of time toward the same child in several law enforcement jurisdictions across multiple states. The basketball team is not associated with Owasso Public Schools, and neither was Duffey. The team was using the facility while school was not in session. Owasso PD said the incident was witnessed by another team coach who they said “immediately intervened and reported it to the juvenile’s parents.” The suspect, Coach Duffey, fled the scene, police said. Police said Duffey’s wife was contacted at the time of the incident and was given information on how to file an emergency protective order against her husband by police. During the investigation, Owasso PD said they learned that Duffey, 48, is a member of the Osage Nation and due to the incident taking place in Indian Country, the case was considered to be a ”major crime under the Federal Major Crimes Act.” Duffey was accused of lewd molestations of a minor and the case was sent to the U.S. Attorney’s Office for review. Owasso Police no longer had jurisdiction over the investigation. On Thursday, July 23, Owasso Police responded to a report of domestic violence at a home located at 12318 North 130th East Avenue in Collinsville. The house’s address fell within the city limits of Owasso, allowing law enforcement to investigate. The call came in around 11:16 p.m. Dispatchers said that they could hear a woman screaming and what sounded like a gunshot during the call. Another 911 call came in, police said, from a child. The child told dispatch that “his step-father had shot his mother.” When police arrived on scene, they found two people dead with gunshot wounds to the head. Police investigated the incident as a murder-suicide. The child who called was taken into protective custody, police said, and was released to his other parent who was not involved. Police identified the victim as 43-year-old Sara Duffey. They said Sara had been granted a protective order against Jeremiah and no reports had been made of Jeremiah violating the order prior to the shooting. Owasso Police said this is an ongoing investigation. Trending Who was Erin Piacenti? Newlywed Bank of America lawyer killed in Times Square stabbing Police said she was stabbed in the abdomen after the suspect approached her on Seventh Avenue. Sand Springs explosion suspect faces additional charges in Creek County Sand Springs marijuana facility explosion suspect, Ryan Bassham, is now facing additional charges in Creek County. South Tulsa neighbors organize petition against proposed 12-resident care home Residents in a south Tulsa neighborhood are rallying together to oppose a proposed 12-person care facility near 61st Street and Harvard Avenue. Ryan Bassham arrested in connection with deadly Sand Springs explosion, victims identified Ryan Bassham has been arrested and taken into custody for two counts of first degree murder following a deadly explosion in Sand Springs. Tulsa Police arrest man after they say he broke in and burglarized woman's apartment The Tulsa Police Department said they arrested a man after he broke into a woman's apartment while she was inside and attempted to steal money from her. NEWS IN PHOTOS: " Local " 4 Motorcyclist suffers only minor injuries after crashing into light pole 7 Tulsa Fire Department urges residents to close bedroom doors after house fire 3 Tulsa Police searching for information after 19-year-old shot outside event center 3 Sand Springs Police issue warrant for man accused in deadly facility explosion ACCESSIBILITY Download Our Mobile Apps: Terms & Conditions Copyright Notices EEO Public File Report FCC Info FCC Applications Public File Assistance Contact News Team Careers Contests News Weather Sports Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Do Not Sell or Share Cookie Preferences 2026 Sinclair, Inc.