Israeli raid in West Bank’s Qalandiya injures 51 Palestinians | Human Rights News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up Navigation menu Israel-Palestine conflict Shackled, bleeding, raped: Abuse in Israeli prisons ‘This is an apartheid regime’ Does Trump have real leverage over Netanyahu? History of flotilla campaigns News | Human Rights Israeli raid in West Bank’s Qalandiya injures 51 Palestinians Israeli forces arrest dozens of Palestinians near Jerusalem amid uptick in military and settler violence in West Bank. Listen (3 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google Israeli forces raid Qalandiya refugee camp in the occupied West Bank, August 5, 2026 [Mohammed Torokman/Reuters] By Al Jazeera Staff Published On 7 Aug 2026 7 Aug 2026 A “large-scale” Israeli raid in the Qalandiya refugee camp in the occupied West Bank has injured at least 51 Palestinians, the Jerusalem Governorate told Al Jazeera. Israeli forces demolished commercial shops near the Qalandiya checkpoint on Thursday, before imposing a curfew on the neighbouring town of Kafr Aqab and sealing off roads linking the area to Jerusalem. Recommended Stories list of 3 items list 1 of 3 Trump signs executive orders banning so-called ‘birth tourism’ list 2 of 3 ‘No red line’: South Lebanon residents outraged as Israel resumes strikes list 3 of 3 Travel restrictions – from Israel and Europe – trap students in Gaza end of list The Palestine Red Crescent Society (PRCS) said 35 people were hospitalised after severe beatings and six more were treated at the scene. One person was hit by a rubber-coated steel bullet. Six others suffered tear gas inhalation, according to PRCS. The organisation said its ambulance crews had been blocked from reaching the wounded since late at night on Wednesday, though crews still managed to evacuate several patients, including people requiring kidney dialysis. Israeli soldiers fired stun grenades at journalists stationed at the camp’s entrance and ordered them to leave. Dozens of Palestinians, including children and women, were detained for field interrogations inside homes converted into makeshift holding sites, according to local Palestinian media. Israeli forces also raided the city of Jenin on Thursday, shooting one Palestinian and assaulting another, according to PRCS. Israeli army attacks and settler violence against Palestinian communities in the occupied West Bank have intensified in the past months, moving in tandem with increased demolitions of Palestinian property and illegal seizure of their land. Advertisement Rights groups have recorded more than 11,000 Israeli military and settler attacks across the West Bank in the first half of this year alone – with more than 2,300 Palestinians forced from their homes due to settler violence and related restrictions. A United Nations-appointed commission of inquiry concluded in June that Israeli authorities have repeatedly failed to prevent foreseeable settler attacks and investigate and punish those responsible. In some cases, Israeli authorities directly enabled violence through army protection and the provision of weapons and funding to settlers, the investigators said. Israel has banned UNRWA, the UN agency for Palestinian refugees, from operating in occupied East Jerusalem and demolished several of the agency’s facilities there, including near Qalandiya. Since taking on authority over civilian affairs in the occupied West Bank, Israeli Minister of Finance Bezalel Smotrich has approved, legalised or re-established more than 104 illegal settlements and 160 agricultural outposts. Meanwhile, Israeli Minister of National Security Itamar Ben-Gvir has distributed thousands of firearms to settlers through state-backed “civil defence” programmes. Several Western governments, including the United Kingdom, Canada and France, have sanctioned individual settlers as well as sitting ministers, such as Smotrich, over their role in the violence. In one of his first decrees after returning to the White House last year, US President Donald Trump revoked limited US sanctions against Israeli settlers accused of attacking Palestinians. Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network