Gaza holds mass funeral for 112 people in extended family recovered from wartime rubble - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Spokane Wildfires World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War Spokane Wildfires World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News World Gaza holds mass funeral for 112 people in extended family recovered from wartime rubble By Ramy Inocencio Ramy Inocencio Correspondent Ramy Inocencio is a CBS News foreign correspondent based in London, covering Europe and the Middle East. He joined the Network in 2019 as CBS News' Asia correspondent, based in Beijing and reporting across the Asia-Pacific, bringing two decades of experience working and traveling between Asia and the United States. Read Full Bio Ramy Inocencio Updated on: August 4, 2026 / 2:46 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google In Gaza City, row after row of human remains — 112 people in all, and hauntingly from the same extended family — were laid in the morning sun, each draped in a Palestinian flag. This large family group, including dozens of women and children from the Hassayna and Abu Sharia clan in Gaza City, died nearly three years ago. An Israeli military strike hit the clan's residential compound in the second month of the war, on Nov. 23, 2023, according to Gaza's Civil Defense, which operates under the Hamas-run Interior Ministry. In a statement to CBS News, Israel's military said it "does not deliberately target the civilian population and takes all feasible measures to mitigate harm to civilians," while it said Hamas "systematically operates from within, beneath, and in close proximity to densely populated areas and civilian infrastructure, exploiting the civilian population to shield its military activities." Recovery teams were only able to access the site in the Sabra neighborhood of Gaza City in mid-July, exhuming and collecting decomposed remains over the last two weeks of the month. A mass funeral is held for over 100 members of the Abu Sharia and Al-Hasayna families, whose remains were recently recovered from the rubble of their homes after an attack earlier in the war, on Aug. 4, 2026, in Gaza City. Omar Ashtawy / Getty Images Gaza authorities described this as the strip's biggest mass funeral since Oct. 7, 2023, after Hamas-led militants stormed southern Israel, igniting fierce Israeli retribution that has killed more than 70,000 Palestinians in the nearly three years since, according to figures from Gaza's Hamas-run Health Ministry. One mourner showered flower petals over the covered bodies of the Hassayna and Abu Sharia clan as women and children watched from atop partly demolished buildings around the earthen square. A banner with the faces of dozens of children served as the backdrop of a speech from the spokesperson of Gaza's Civil Defense. "O nation, why are children getting killed in Gaza? Why are women getting killed in Gaza?" asked Mahmoud Basal at the service. "Why are massacres committed against innocents in Gaza?" The words "Stop the genocide in Gaza," in both Arabic and English, had been scrawled on the podium he spoke from. Israeli officials have vehemently disputed accusations that Israel committed genocide in Gaza, saying it was Hamas that attempted genocide with its Oct. 7 attack on the Jewish state. Michal Ben-Gal contributed to this report. Crisis in the Middle East More Trump says Hamas agreed to next phase of Gaza peace deal, including disarmament Netanyahu vows crackdown amid deadly clashes in Israeli occupied West Bank Israeli strike kills aid worker who brought World Cup screenings to Gaza Israel says strike killed new chief of Hamas armed wing in Gaza Premature babies who escaped Gaza war finally reunited with families Go deeper with The Free Press The Hostage Release and the Future of Gaza WATCH: The Hostage Release and the Future of Gaza In: Gaza Gaza Strip © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Latest news on Gaza peace plan Latest news on Middle East after Trump says Gaza peace plan is moving along 07:37 Latest news on Middle East after Trump says Gaza peace plan is moving along (07:37) Funeral held for family "wiped off the map" in Russian strike Family "forever grateful" after 10-year-old rescued from rip current by teen lifeguard Full transcript of "Face the Nation with Margaret Brennan," Aug. 2, 2026 The Hostage Release and the Future of Gaza Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest MLB Trade Deadline Predictions NFL Overrated QBs Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue