David Brat bound for Australia as diplomat confirmed as next US ambassador | Australian politics | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters David Brat as a Republican congressman in 2014. The US Senate has confirmed him as the next US ambassador to Australia. Photograph: Steve Helber/AP View image in fullscreen David Brat as a Republican congressman in 2014. The US Senate has confirmed him as the next US ambassador to Australia. Photograph: Steve Helber/AP Australian politics David Brat bound for Australia as diplomat confirmed as next US ambassador Former Republican state congressman, who once argued Christianity and capitalism should merge, confirmed by US Senate to fill long-vacant role Get our breaking news email , free app or daily news podcast Josh Taylor Fri 7 Aug 2026 19.50 EDT Last modified on Sat 8 Aug 2026 00.01 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Former Virginia congressman David Brat has been confirmed by the US Senate to be the next US ambassador to Australia, after the role had been left vacant for 18 months. Brat’s confirmation was among more than 70 votes pushed through the Senate by Republicans on Friday, Washington time, before the summer recess. Brat was nominated by Donald Trump in April . The 61-year-old served two terms in Congress until 2018, when he was defeated by a Democrat, and was vice-president of business relations at Virginia’s Liberty University. The ambassador role had been vacant since November 2024, when Joe Biden’s ambassador, Caroline Kennedy, left the post. Anthony Albanese in April said he would work with anyone Trump nominated, when asked to respond to Brat’s earlier claims that US intelligence agencies conspired to remove Trump from office. “We respect the sovereignty of countries to put forward ambassadors just like we expect our choices to be endorsed,” he said at the time. Sign up for the Breaking News Australia email The foreign affairs minister, Penny Wong, welcomed Brat’s appointment in a statement on Saturday. “He will find Australia to be a warm host and a good friend,” she said. “We share his priorities of critical minerals, defence cooperation and partnership in the Indo-Pacific. Together we will strengthen the alliance in the interests of both our countries.” The climate change and energy minister, Chris Bowen, told reporters on Saturday it was important to have the position now filled. “The bilateral relationship is of course a deeply important one and we welcome the appointment of the new ambassador.” Brat was described by Time magazine in 2010 as a “Tea Party professor” and an enthusiast of the author Ayn Rand. In a 2011 paper, he argued that capitalism and Christianity should merge, writing: “If we all did the right thing and had the guts to spread the word, we would not need the government to backstop every action we take.” Brat was swept into the Senate in 2014 when he defeated the then House of Representatives majority leader, Eric Cantor, in a primary. He lost his seat in 2018 to Democrat Abigail Spanberger, who is now the governor of Virginia. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | When needed Sign up to Breaking News Australia Get the most important news as it breaks Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion The confirmation comes amid tense US-Australia relations, with Trump levelling 12.5% tariffs on many Australian exports in July. Australia was on a list of 54 economies hit with the tariffs due to what the US claimed was a failure “to impose and effectively enforce a prohibition on the importation of goods produced with forced labor”. At the time, the trade minister, Don Farrell, called for the tariffs to be removed, saying they were inconsistent with Australia’s free-trade agreement with the US. David Brat, Ayn Rand expert who once argued Christianity and capitalism should merge, named as US ambassador to Australia Read more Brat’s arrival in Australia will coincide with the 75th anniversary of the Anzus treaty, a security pact over defence of the Pacific, and comes after the Albanese government announced in May it would instead buy three second-hand American nuclear submarines as part of the $370bn Aukus deal, instead of two second-hand and one new as originally intended. While the Albanese government has remained supportive of Aukus, there has been growing disquiet from some within Labor about the plan. Former cabinet minister Ed Husic said in June that the change meant “we are not going to get the deal that was promised to us”. The former defence secretary Greg Moriarty has been Australia’s representative in Washington since taking over from former prime minister Kevin Rudd in April. Explore more on these topics Australian politics Labor party Aukus Anthony Albanese news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Australian families are losing loved ones to gambling. The industry’s ‘I know nothing’ defence beggars belief 2h ago Amid a week of sex and drug allegations, Pocock summed up Albanese’s gambling plan with one word 1d ago … … comments Will Labor do what is right for them or the nation? – Back to Back Barries podcast 1d ago Pauline Hanson echoes Trump as she lashes out about ‘fake news’ reporting on lavish London hotel 2d ago Australian Politics Can the government really get ahead of the curve on AI? – Australian Politics podcast 2d ago ‘Performative reductions’: Labor MPs and business groups urge Burke against sweeping immigration changes 3d ago Labor faces fierce backlash from gambling giants as Coalition and Greens push for new controls on inducements 3d ago ‘Orange elephant in the room’: Pauline Hanson’s political rise is inspiring racism, inquiry hears 3d ago Australian politician admits to sending text saying ‘my job is boring’ during a hearing 3d ago Labor MP Ed Husic taken to hospital with fractures and concussion after car crash 3d ago Most viewed Most viewed Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)