Head of drone manufacturer critically injured in car bomb in Russia | Russia | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Russia is likely to blame Ukraine for the bombing, which comes just days after an explosion outside a restaurant in central Moscow. Photograph: Pavel Bednyakov/AP View image in fullscreen Russia is likely to blame Ukraine for the bombing, which comes just days after an explosion outside a restaurant in central Moscow. Photograph: Pavel Bednyakov/AP Russia Head of drone manufacturer critically injured in car bomb in Russia Assassination attempt demonstrates Ukraine’s ability to continue clandestine operations deep inside Russian territory Pjotr Sauer Wed 5 Aug 2026 12.26 EDT First published on Wed 5 Aug 2026 08.10 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google The head of a leading Russian drone manufacturer has been critically injured in a car bomb near Ekaterinburg, in what appears to be the latest in a series of assassination attempts targeting figures linked to the country’s war in Ukraine. Vladimir Tkachuk, the founder of the private drone manufacturer Uraldronzavod, was rushed to intensive care on Wednesday after a bomb planted beneath his Mercedes exploded, according to Russian state media, citing emergency services. His bodyguard was killed in the explosion. The Russian news agency Tass reported that Tkachuk was in a critical condition and doctors were “fighting [to save] his life”. Images circulating on social media showed the charred wreckage of a Mercedes, with blood stains visible on the pavement nearby. Uraldronzavod is one of several private drone manufacturers that sprang up in Russia after the full-scale invasion of Ukraine . The company is best known for producing the Upyr (Ghoul), a low-cost first-person-view (FPV) kamikaze drone manufactured using 3D-printing technology at its facility in Ekaterinburg and widely used by Russian forces in Ukraine. In 2024, Vladimir Putin visited the factory, where he was given a tour by Tkachuk. Uraldronzavod and Tkachuk have been hit with sanctions by western governments for their role in supporting Russia’s war. Tkachuk is also the founder of the popular pro-war Telegram channel Obsessed with War, which has more than 500,000 followers and has been used to raise funds and procure military equipment for Russian soldiers fighting on the frontline. Russia is likely to blame Ukraine for the bombing, which comes just days after an explosion outside an upmarket restaurant in central Moscow that killed five people. Russian authorities have not identified the intended target of that attack, but pro-Kremlin bloggers and independent Russian media suggested it was aimed at Col Gen Aleksandr Chayko, the commander of Russia’s aerospace forces, who was reportedly celebrating his birthday at the restaurant. Among those killed was Chayko’s son-in-law Daniil Peredrya, the independent outlet Agentstvo reported on Wednesday, citing government records. Since the start of the full-scale invasion, Ukraine’s intelligence agencies have targeted dozens of senior Russian military officers and Russia-installed officials, accusing them of involvement in war crimes. Ukrainian intelligence services have previously employed a range of tactics in operations inside Russia, including planting explosive devices beneath vehicles that can be detonated remotely. The latest assassination attempt demonstrates Ukraine’s ability to continue its clandestine operations deep inside Russian territory, and is likely to intensify scrutiny of Russia’s internal security apparatus and its inability to protect senior officials and pro-war figures. Explore more on these topics Russia Ukraine Europe news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)