--> Markets News, Aug. 3, 2026: Dow Closes at Record; Stocks Surge to Begin August Trading; Oil Prices Sink as Trump Calls Off Iran Strikes Skip to content Investopedia Trade Search Please fill out this field. Log In My Account Log Out Newsletters Search Please fill out this field. News News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Investing Stocks Cryptocurrency Bonds ETFs Options and Derivatives Commodities Trading Automated Investing Brokers Fundamental Analysis View All Simulator Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Banking Banking Savings Accounts Certificates of Deposit (CDs) Money Market Accounts Checking Accounts View All Personal Finance Personal Finance American Dream Retirement Student Loans Personal Loans Budgeting and Saving Mortgages Credit and Debt Taxes Insurance Financial Literacy View All Economy Economy Government and Policy Monetary Policy Fiscal Policy Economics View All Reviews Reviews Best Online Brokers Best Crypto Exchanges Best Savings Rates Best CD Rates Best Life Insurance Best Mortgage Rates Best Robo-Advisors Best Personal Loans Best Debt Relief Companies View All Log In My Account My Account Log Out Newsletters Follow Us News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Stocks Cryptocurrency Bonds ETFs Options and Derivatives Commodities Trading Automated Investing Brokers Fundamental Analysis View All Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Banking Savings Accounts Certificates of Deposit (CDs) Money Market Accounts Checking Accounts View All Personal Finance American Dream Retirement Student Loans Personal Loans Budgeting and Saving Mortgages Credit and Debt Taxes Insurance Financial Literacy View All Economy Government and Policy Monetary Policy Fiscal Policy Economics View All Reviews Best Online Brokers Best Crypto Exchanges Best Savings Rates Best CD Rates Best Life Insurance Best Mortgage Rates Best Robo-Advisors Best Personal Loans Best Debt Relief Companies View All Markets News, Aug. 3, 2026: Dow Closes at Record; Stocks Surge to Begin August Trading; Oil Prices Sink as Trump Calls Off Iran Strikes By Aaron Rennie Full Bio A former Senior Publishing Editor on the Dow Jones Newswires team at The Wall Street Journal, Aaron earned a Bachelor's degree in Economics from the University of Michigan and a Master's in Journalism from Columbia University. Learn about our editorial policies Updated August 03, 2026 04:05 PM EDT Amazon hit a $3 trillion market capitalization for the first time Monday. Michael M. Santiago / Getty Images Close Stocks started a new month with gains, as the leading U.S. indexes finished with strong gains and the Dow industrials closed at a record high for the first time in more than a month. The tech-focused Nasdaq Composite, benchmark S&P 500, and blue-chip Dow finished Monday, the first trading session of August, up a respective 2.1%, 1.5%, and 1.3%. The Dow added nearly 700 points to surpass its record close of 53055.91 set on July 6. On Friday , the three major U.S. indexes finished a volatile week of trading higher but only the Dow ended in the green for July. This week , investors will be focused on the U.S. employment report for July, due Friday, as well as corporate earnings reports from the likes of Palantir ( PLTR ) today and SpaceX ( SPCX ), McDonald’s ( MCD ), and Advanced Micro Devices ( AMD ) tomorrow. Palantir shares closed up more than 2% ahead of the firm’s results after markets closed. Oil prices sank after President Donald Trump wrote on Truth Social yesterday that he was holding off on attacking Iran, “subject to being able to rapidly make a DEAL” to reopen the Strait of Hormuz. U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate futures dropped 5.2% to $80.25 a barrel at 4 p.m. ET, while global benchmark Brent crude futures fell 4.7% to $83.75. Also declining was the 10-year Treasury yield , which influences interest rates on a variety of consumer loans including mortgages. It recently was around 4.69%, down five basis points from its close Friday, when it hit its highest level since January 2025. “The S&P 500 traded entirely within June’s range in July, as downside inflation surprises and strong earnings were offset by semiconductor weakness, renewed geopolitical volatility, and another oil surge,” Chris Larkin, E*TRADE from Morgan Stanley’s Managing Director, Trading and Investing, said in written commentary. “This week the market is poised to get an early boost from falling oil, but the on-again, off-again nature of US-Iran diplomacy could mean earnings and jobs data will have to do the heavy lifting for the bulls this week.” Amazon ( AMZN ) shares, which jumped 15% to pace the three indexes Friday after the Magnificent Seven tech giant posted strong cloud-computing results , advanced a further 4.5% Monday to give the company a market capitalization of more than $3 trillion for the first time. Apple ( AAPL ) shares, which sank 7% to lead S&P 500 and Nasdaq decliners last session, fell nearly 2%. All of the other Magnificent Seven mega-cap tech companies finished higher, with Alphabet ( GOOGL ) and Microsoft ( MSFT ) rising roughly 5% each to help power the Dow, which was led by an 8% rise by Boeing ( BA ). Shares of AstraZeneca ( AZN ) and Bristol Myers Squibb ( BMY ) finished a respective 7% lower and slightly higher following a Financial Times report that the pharmaceutical giants were in talks to combine. In post-earnings moves, shares of Marriott International ( MAR ) and Tyson Foods ( TSN ) declined 7% and rose 3%, respectively. The U.S. dollar index , which tracks the value of the greenback against a basket of foreign currencies, was near flat at 99.92. The dollar weakened against the yen after the U.S. and Japan coordinated to support the latter after it hit a 40-year low against the greenback. Bitcoin was trading around $63,900, up modestly over the past 24 hours. Gold futures ticked higher to $4,110 an ounce. Are Chip Stocks Poised to Stage a Recovery? Here’s What Wall Street Analysts Are Saying August 03, 2026 04:09 PM EDT Semiconductor stocks just had their toughest month in over a decade. Are they due for a rebound? The PHLX Semiconductor Sector Index ( SOX ) in July logged its worst month since the 2008 financial crisis , leaving the index more than 20% off its June highs amid a broader pullback in the AI trade. Some investors, however, see the chance of a recovery: Better-than-expected earnings from major chip buyers Microsoft ( MSFT ) and Amazon ( AMZN ), which some on Wall Street saw as validating the cloud giants’ AI spending, and a subsequent surge in chip stocks to end last week, could point to a shift in sentiment. “Taken together, Microsoft and Amazon earnings results offer the most significant proof points to date that large scale bets on AI will generate tangible returns for customers and infrastructure providers,” analysts at Jefferies wrote in a note Monday, telling clients they believe the negative sentiment surrounding the AI trade in recent weeks may have hit a bottom . Analysts at Citi, Bank of America, and UBS also suggested the big tech giants’ results reinforced their conviction in chip stocks. Nvidia and other semiconductor stocks have climbed in the wake of strong earnings from major chip buyers Amazon and Microsoft. Lam Yik Fei / Bloomberg / Getty Images Shares of AI chip leader Nvidia ( NVDA ), which counts both Microsoft and Amazon among its customers, rose 3% Monday, adding to a 3% rise Friday in the wake of earnings from the cloud giants. Qualcomm ( QCOM ) and Intel ( INTC ) also advanced, sending the “SOX” index up about 1%. Read the full article here . - Kara Greenberg CoreWeave, Nebius Group Shares Soar to Begin New Month After Rough July August 03, 2026 02:44 PM EDT CoreWeave and Nebius Group shareholders doubtless are pleased it’s a new month. Shares of neocloud firms CoreWeave ( CRWV ) and Nebius ( NBIS ) are soaring a respective 17% and 14% to lead the Nasdaq after each enduring a difficult July. Nebius stock sank 31% last month, while CoreWeave shares dropped 28%. The duo’s shares seem to be benefitting from a resurgent AI trade following strong results from the likes of Magnificent Seven mega-cap tech firms Amazon ( AMZN ) and Microsoft ( MSFT ), among others. CoreWeave shares had a rough July. Jakub Porzycki / NurPhoto via Getty Images Boeing Stock Jumps; Plane Maker Gets FAA Certification for 737 MAX-7 August 03, 2026 01:44 PM EDT At long last, the Federal Aviation Administration has certified the Boeing 737 MAX-7 plane. Boeing ( BA ) shares are jumping 6.5% to lead the Dow after the FAA—after nearly a decade—granted the approval, which it said “reflects years of sustained work to resolve complex technical issues and complete a thorough review of the airplane’s design and supporting safety analyses.” The agency said it “required the MAX-7 to incorporate key improvements that address requirements in the Aircraft Certification, Safety, and Accountability Act and NTSB recommendations, including updates to the flight-control software, flightcrew alerting system, and a redesigned engine anti-ice system” before it certified the plane. Boeing, which now is allowed to begin production of the MAX-7, still is awaiting FAA approval for the 777X and 737 MAX-10 models. Shares entered Monday down less than 1% on the year. TradingView Meta, Alphabet Power Communication Services Sector August 03, 2026 12:36 PM EDT The S&P 500 Communication Services Sector is soaring today. A couple Magnificent Seven companies are leading the charge. Meta Platforms ( META ) and Alphabet ( GOOGL ) are up a respective 7% and 5.5% in recent trading, helping the S&P 500 Communication Services Sector jump 5%. Eight of the 11 sectors tracked by the benchmark index are in the green today, with Consumer Discretionary the second-best performer, up 2.5%. Meta Platforms is leading the S&P 500 Communication Services Sector higher. David Paul Morris / Bloomberg via Getty Images Amazon’s Stock—and Market Cap—Keeps Rocking Higher August 03, 2026 11:46 AM EDT Amazon’s hot post-earnings run continued Monday, lifting the tech giant into the $3 trillion market cap club for the first time. Shares of Amazon ( AMZN ) were recently up about 5% to above $285. That had the company valued at nearly $3.08 trillion, good for fifth on the list of the world’s most valuable public businesses. The stock’s latest move has been driven by the quarterly numbers Amazon turned in after Thursday’s close, which included revenue and earnings that beat Wall Street’s estimates and showed Amazon Web Services sales rising 37% to $42.2 billion, nearly $2 billion above estimates. The shares had closed Thursday at $235.50, meaning that at today’s highs they’d risen more than 20% since. Recent prices put the company’s market value at around $3.07 trillion. (Nvidia remains the most valuable company at last check, its value holding above $5 trillion after reclaiming the top spot from Apple.) – David Marino-Nachison Amazon reached a $3 trillion market cap today. Marcin Golba / NurPhoto via Getty Images Palantir Reports Earnings This Afternoon. Can Strong Results Inject Some Fresh Enthusiasm Back Into the Stock? August 03, 2026 11:21 AM EDT Palantir is set to report its latest quarterly results after the closing bell today. Could the report help improve sentiment around the software maker’s shares? Shares of Palantir ( PLTR ), which climbed about 2% in recent trading ahead of the report, have lost nearly a third of their value since the start of the year and are roughly 40% off their November highs. Worries about AI disrupting the software industry , along with some fears that last year’s rally left Palantir’s stock overvalued , have weighed on the stock lately . The software company is expected to report $1.81 billion in revenue for the second quarter, up 80% year-over-year , with adjusted earnings per share seen more than doubling to 35 cents per share. Still, a strong report wasn’t enough to lift the stock out of its slump following its last report in May . Analysts have stayed broadly bullish on Palantir despite this year’s slide, with several calling the pullback a buying opportunity , and suggesting growing AI adoption could prove more of an opportunity than a threat to Palantir. - Aaron McDade Palantir shares are down about 30% since the start of the year. INA FASSBENDER / AFP via Getty Images Marriott Revenue Comes Up Short; Middle East Conflict Weighs August 03, 2026 11:01 AM EDT The conflict in the Middle East is weighing on Marriott International shares Monday. Marriott ( MAR ) is one of the worst-performing stocks in the Nasdaq today, with shares down nearly 7%, after the company’s second-quarter revenue missed analysts’ estimates. The Bethesda, Md.-based hotel chain reported revenue of $7.07 billion, below Visible Alpha consensus of $7.21 billion. Global revenue per available room (RevPAR) rose 3.4% year-over-year, above estimates, but international RevPAR slipped when a slight increase was expected. “International RevPAR declined 0.5% in the quarter, as headwinds from the conflict in the Middle East more than offset solid RevPAR growth across our other international regions. In EMEA, RevPAR declined over 5%, with an increase in Europe outweighed by a 43% decline in the Middle East,” CEO Anthony Capuano said. Despite today’s decline, Marriott shares are up about 12% this year. Marriott shares are down about 7% today. Marcin Golba / NurPhoto via Getty Images Apple Slips to 3rd in Market Cap August 03, 2026 10:30 AM EDT A week ago, Apple leapfrogged Nvidia to become the world’s most valuable company. Now it’s third. Apple ( AAPL ) shares slipped a further 1% Monday after sinking 7% to lead S&P 500 and Nasdaq decliners last session. The iPhone maker now has a market capitalization below $4.49 trillion. Nvidia’s ( NVDA ) is about $4.98 trillion, while Google parent Alphabet’s ( GOOGL ) is at just above $4.49 trillion. Apple shares slipped further after tumbling Friday. Spencer Platt / Getty Images GameStock Stock Drops Into the Red for 2026 August 03, 2026 09:47 AM EDT Shares of GameStop fell into negative territory for 2026 for the first time today. GameStop ( GME ), the meme stock and video game retailer that hopes to merge with eBay ( EBAY ), was recently down roughly 9% to below $20 per share. The move below December’s close just a few cents over $20 marked the stock’s first move into the red for 2026. Some of today’s move may be driven by the news that GameStop plans to exchange $1.4 billion of its debt for common stock, a move that some investors may see as diluting their holdings . Shareholders had approved an increase to shares outstanding at the company’s annual meeting in July. The latest drop in GameStop’s shares extends an up-and-down year for the stock, which at one point in May traded near $27. The company that month offered to buy eBay in a cash-and-stock deal that valued the online marketplace at $125 per share; eBay has not accepted the offer. – David Marino-Nachison Shares of GameStop slid to start the week. Brandon Bell / Getty Images Bristol Myers Squibb Stock Jumps on Reported Merger Talks With AstraZeneca August 03, 2026 08:58 AM EDT Bristol Myers Squibb stock is surging Monday following a report of a potential mega-merger with a competitor. Shares of Bristol Myers Squibb ( BMY ) were up over 4% in premarket trading to their highest point since early 2023 following a report that the company held merger talks with AstraZeneca ( AZN ), according to The Financial Times. AstraZeneca’s U.S.-listed shares slid 6%. Late Sunday, the FT reported that the two companies have discussed a merger in recent months to create a combined drugmaker that could be valued at nearly $400 billion. The report said, however, that it could be dropped over worries about potential political pushback and the close competitive nature of several of the companies’ drugs, including cancer treatments . AstraZeneca declined to remark on the report, and Bristol Myers Squibb did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Through Friday’s close, AstraZeneca shares were down 3% for the year so far. Michael Nagle / Bloomberg via Getty Images Such a deal could give AstraZeneca greater access to the U.S. market, after the U.K.-based drugmaker completed a listing on the New York Stock Exchange back in February. The company last year also announced plans to invest $50 billion to expand its manufacturing and research efforts in the U.S. by 2030. Through Friday’s close, AstraZeneca shares were down 3% for the year so far, while Bristol Myers Squibb shares have gained more than 20%. - Aaron McDade Eli Lilly Pancreatic Cancer Drug Gets FDA Breakthrough Therapy Designation August 03, 2026 08:34 AM EDT Eli Lilly received some good news from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration a couple days ahead of the pharmaceutical giant’s earnings report. Before the bell Monday, Lilly ( LLY ) announced that the FDA “has granted Breakthrough Therapy designation to olomorasib as a monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with advanced pancreatic cancer who have received at least one prior systemic therapy and have a KRAS G12C mutation, as determined by an FDA-approved test.” The designation is granted by the FDA when preliminary clinical evidence indicates a drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over available therapy, and may accelerate the path to approval. Eli Lilly shares entered Monday up about 7% this year. Michael Siluk / UCG / Universal Images Group via Getty Images “Pancreatic cancer has historically been one of the most difficult-to-treat cancers and people whose tumors harbor a KRAS G12C mutation face limited options once their disease progresses,” said Jacob Van Naarden, executive vice president, and president of Lilly Oncology. “This Breakthrough Therapy designation reflects the early potential we’re seeing with olomorasib in this setting and the critical need for new treatment options.” Shares of Lilly, which is set to report second-quarter results Wednesday, rose about 1.5% before the bell. They entered the week up roughly 7% since the start of the year. Here’s How Much Traders See AMD Stock Moving After Earnings August 03, 2026 08:18 AM EDT Advanced Micro Devices is scheduled to report earnings after markets close Tuesday, with traders anticipating a big move from the chipmaker’s stock. Based on recent options prices, AMD ( AMD ) shares are seen swinging up to 10% in either direction by the end of the week. A move of that size from Friday’s close could see the stock rally as high as $527, or give back some of this year’s gains to slip below $430. The chipmaker’s stock has more than doubled in value since the start of the year as data center sales surged , though it’s slipped nearly 19% off its June highs amid a broader pullback in the AI trade. AMD shares have more than doubled in value since the start of the year. Nathalie Jamois / SOPA Images / LightRocket / Getty Images Analysts from UBS and Bank of America recently lifted their price targets to $730 and $620, respectively, from $700 and $560 following AMD’s Advancing AI event where it unveiled a slate of new products. William Blair analysts said after the event that AMD is “now on the offense to grab share, with a robust product roadmap and a focus on open standards helping it land large commitments from hyperscaler and AI lab customers.” Read the full article here . - Aaron McDade What to Expect in Markets This Week August 03, 2026 07:34 AM EDT Elon Musk gets plenty of attention. He’ll get even more this week. SpaceX is set to issue its first quarterly earnings report as a public company Tuesday afternoon, calling attention to Silicon Valley’s surging investment in AI and the supply chain supporting the buildout. The results will follow a volatile seven weeks for Elon Musk’s newly public moonshot. The rocket, connectivity and AI company sold shares for $135 in the largest initial public offering on record in June. The stock shot up in its first days, surpassing $225, and then steadily slid, falling below its IPO price and touching a low of $107 last week. SpaceX is slated to issue its first quarterly results as a public company on Tuesday. Walter Cicchetti via Getty Images Enthusiasm for SpaceX stock has flagged amid operational setbacks and a pullback in AI stocks. Tech giants have issued new stock and used debt to finance their increasingly expensive AI data center buildout, raising questions about when the investments will pay off. Investors recently dumped shares of several Magnificent 7 members, including Musk’s EV maker Tesla , after the companies indicated their AI spending spree is far from over. Read the full article here . - Sarina Trangle Stock Futures Rise to Begin August Trading as Oil Prices Drop August 03, 2026 06:50 AM EDT Futures contracts tied to the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.8%. TradingView S&P 500 futures pointed up 0.5%. TradingView Nasdaq 100 futures advanced 0.4%. TradingView Take the Next Step to Invest Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. Read more News Markets News Live Markets News Partner Links Take the Next Step to Invest Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. Related Articles Markets News, Sept. 1, 2025: Stocks Sink to Begin September as Oil Prices, Treasury Yields Jump Markets News, Aug. 31, 2026: Major Stock Indexes Post Gains for August Despite Falling Monday Amid Rising Oil Prices Markets News, Aug. 24, 2026: Nasdaq, S&P 500 Close Lower to Begin Week as Chip Stocks Sink; Bitcoin Nears $80,000 Markets News, Aug. 25, 2026: Major Indexes Close Higher as Chip Stocks Rebound; Oil Prices, Treasury Yields Sink Markets News, Aug. 27, 2026: Nvidia Stock Powers Higher After Earnings, Driving Tech Gains; Nasdaq Closes Sharply Higher Markets News, Aug. 20, 2026: Major Indexes Slide After Snapping 3-Day Skids; Oil Prices, Treasury Yields, Bitcoin Rise; Walmart Stock Drops Markets News, Aug. 18, 2026: Tech Shares Sink as Major Indexes Fall for 3rd Straight Session; Oil Prices Rise Markets News, Aug. 28, 2026: Indexes Close Higher for Week; Marvell Weighs on Tech Stocks; Bond Yields Rise After Warsh Speech Markets News, Aug. 17, 2026: US Stocks Start Week Lower, Oil Prices Rise; Memory Shares Outperform Markets News, Aug. 26, 2026: Dow’s Winning Streak Ends as Inflation Data Lands Slightly Hot; Nvidia Sales, Earnings Beat Estimates Markets News, Aug. 19, 2026: Indexes Rise, Ending Run of Declines; Bond Yields Drop as Treasury Increases Buyback of Longer-Term Notes Markets News, Aug. 14, 2026: Tech Shares Pull Back as Major Indexes Slip; S&P 500, Nasdaq Log 3rd Straight Week of Gains Markets News, Aug. 4, 2026: S&P 500, Dow Close at Records as Palantir, Caterpillar Shares Jump; Oil Drops on US-Iran Deal Optimism Markets News, Aug. 11, 2026: U.S. Indexes End Lower for Second Straight Day; Oil Prices Extend Gains; CPI Report On Deck Markets News, Aug. 13, 2026: S&P 500 Closes at Record, Nasdaq Jumps as Tech Shares Surge Following Tame Inflation Data 5 Things to Know Before the Stock Market Opens on Monday Investopedia Newsletter Sign Up Follow Us News Investing Simulator Banking Personal Finance Economy Reviews Dictionary About Us Editorial Process Careers Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Advertise # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Investopedia is part of the People Inc. publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up