Nicola Sturgeon ‘has not spoken to’ estranged husband, Peter Murrell, since he was jailed | Nicola Sturgeon | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland Nicola Sturgeon’s comments came during a podcast recording at the Edinburgh festival fringe. Photograph: Claudia savage/PA View image in fullscreen Nicola Sturgeon’s comments came during a podcast recording at the Edinburgh festival fringe. Photograph: Claudia savage/PA Nicola Sturgeon Nicola Sturgeon ‘has not spoken to’ estranged husband, Peter Murrell, since he was jailed Scotland’s former first minister says she will not visit Murrell in prison, where he is serving five-year sentence for embezzling SNP funds Donna Ferguson Sat 8 Aug 2026 10.50 EDT Last modified on Sat 8 Aug 2026 11.31 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Nicola Surgeon has said she will not visit her estranged husband, Peter Murrell, in prison, has stopped speaking to him and views herself as a “mug” for worrying about his wellbeing and mental health earlier this year. During a podcast recording at the Edinburgh festival fringe, Scotland’s former first minister said Murrell had lied to her until the day he pleaded guilty to embezzling more than £400,000 from the Scottish National party. He was imprisoned for five years in June, and Sturgeon revealed she had not spoken to him since then. She told the broadcaster Iain Dale she had only discovered Murrell was due to plead guilty a week before he appeared in court. She later found out he had been negotiating his plea for months. “[That] hit me like a tonne of bricks,” she said. “He was still lying to me right up until the day he pled guilty.” She added: “He was very isolated over that period, he very rarely left the house, he wasn’t communicative, I was a bit worried about his wellbeing and his mental health. “And then, now I think: ‘What a mug, why were you worried about him?’ He didn’t worry about me. He didn’t worry at all about what he was doing. “What he has subjected me to is beyond anything I could ever have comprehended. I don’t understand why he did it, he had no need to do it. I don’t think I will ever understand his motivations. “But whatever that motivation was, he could not have stopped and ever thought about me. But I was, until recently, still worrying about him.” Asked if she would visit him in prison, Sturgeon replied: “No. I’m not going to speak to him, I’m not going to visit him.” The former first minister said that when Murrell was in court she was still finding out details of the purchases he had made using party funds. “Over the years, he never really levelled with me,” she said. “The day he pled guilty, I was still learning about some of the detail of what he had done for the first time. I suddenly realised I had been living with somebody that I never really knew properly. “That’s something for me to come to terms with, and I don’t think I’m there yet, but also for my family to come to terms with. It’s a really difficult process.” Murrell, 61, spent the money on items including a motorhome, a Jaguar SUV and a VW Golf, boutique cosmetics, iPads and a pair of Lalique Feuilles salt and pepper grinders worth £2,618. Sturgeon, 55, has consistently denied knowledge of his crimes, which spanned the years 2010 to 2022, and was not charged after a police investigation. She has previously said she made an error of judgment by keeping Murrell on as SNP chief executive when she became party leader in November 2014, but refused to apologise for his crimes and denied ever “consciously” seeing the motorhome he bought and stored at her mother-in-law’s house. Explore more on these topics Nicola Sturgeon Scotland Scottish National party (SNP) Scottish politics news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Nicola Sturgeon: I feel as if I’m serving a sentence for a crime I did not commit 31 May 2026 Montblanc pens to Le Creuset ramekins: police photos show Peter Murrell’s spending habit 23 Jun 2026 Peter Murrell jailed for five years after embezzling £400,000 from SNP 23 Jun 2026 Sturgeon says she was ‘deceived, misled and betrayed’ by ex-husband Murrell 28 May 2026 Luxury watches, iPads and a Jaguar: what Peter Murrell bought with embezzled funds 25 May 2026 Nicola Sturgeon: I understand why people doubt my ignorance of alleged SNP embezzlement 7 Nov 2025 Nicola Sturgeon’s memoir Frankly taps into SNP discontent over party’s future 24 Aug 2025 Peter Murrell pleads guilty to embezzling £400,000 from SNP 25 May 2026 Salmond, independence strategy and sexism: what we’ve learned from Nicola Sturgeon’s book 12 Aug 2025 Role of Scotland’s top law officer questioned after ‘bombshell’ over Peter Murrell charges 25 Feb 2026 Most viewed Most viewed UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)