What are the challenges facing the Mecca agreement? | Military News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up Navigation menu US-Israel war on Iran Strait of Hormuz What is Iran’s Pickaxe Mountain? Why have strikes resumed? Bodies of Evidence Video Duration Inside Story What are the challenges facing the Mecca agreement? Saudi Arabia turns to Turkiye and Pakistan for defence ties, raising questions overreliance on the US. Read more Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and Turkiye have signed a joint defence pact . It is an alliance that analysts say highlights Riyadh’s desire to diversify its defence partnerships, expanding to Ankara and Islamabad. Recommended Stories list of 3 items list 1 of 3 Yemen’s government forces attack Houthis amid renewed shelling of Marib list 2 of 3 Iran deliberates Hormuz arrangement amid uncertain prospects with US list 3 of 3 Saudi-Pakistan-Turkiye pact: A new shield or strategic signal? end of list The pact was announced at a time of increased regional tension. Yemen’s Saudi-backed government has launched a military operation against the Iran-aligned Houthis following a series of attacks, while Iran and the US have yet to reach a final deal to end the war. The trilateral Mecca pact raises questions about the effectiveness of the decades-long US military presence in the Gulf. Does this alliance offer a viable alternative to the security umbrella promised by Washington? Presenter: Anna Burns-Francis Guests: Abdulaziz Alghashian – Senior non-resident fellow at the Gulf International Forum David Des Roches – Professor at the Thayer Marshall Institute Zaid M Belbagi – Managing partner at Hardcastle Advisory Published On 8 Aug 2026 8 Aug 2026 Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google More from the same show Can diplomacy end the conflict in Libya? Video Duration 27 minutes 58 seconds 27:58 How fragile is Lebanon’s uneasy peace? Video Duration 27 minutes 59 seconds 27:59 Is the conflict between Russia and Ukraine deepening? Video Duration 27 minutes 30 seconds 27:30 How much of a challenge are wildfires to Europe? Video Duration 27 minutes 30 seconds 27:30 Will Israel withdraw from Gaza if Hamas disarms? Video Duration 28 minutes 30 seconds 28:30 Is Washington dictating the agenda for talks in Venezuela? Video Duration 28 minutes 00 seconds 28:00 Is criticism of Spain on border management legitimate or politics? Video Duration 27 minutes 10 seconds 27:10 About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network