Gen Z Girls Share 5 Things Worth Their Money on The Viral List - YPulse Insights Articles Reports Videos Newsfeed Solutions Platform YPulse AI Tweens Custom Research Calendar Contact Log Out Sign Up Account Log In Insights Articles Reports Videos Newsfeed Solutions Platform YPulse AI Tweens Custom Research Calendar Contact Log Out Sign Up Account Log In Insights Articles Reports Videos Newsfeed Tweens Custom Research Data Report Data Brand Tracking Calendar Log Out Sign Up Account Log In Insights Articles Reports Videos Newsfeed Tweens Custom Research Data Report Data Brand Tracking Calendar Log Out Sign Up Account Log In Search ✦ Ask AI Login Get a Demo article Gen Z Girls Share 5 Things Worth Their Money on The Viral List “Quiet on the creek,” fans push ing for Islanders’ post-show success, and the items worth the money are all going viral… Written and Edited by the YPulse Editorial Team Jul 17 2026 North America , Western Europe KEY TAKEAWAYS Gen Z girls are sharing the products and purchases they think are always worth it Love Island USA fans are planning finalists’ post-show career strategies Gen Z is using the phrase “quiet on the creek” to joke about being sneaky Gen Z girls are sharing the purchases they swear are worth the money A new TikTok trend has mainly young women listing “five things worth the money”—putting their personal stamp of approval on products and experiences they’ll spend on regardless of their budget. The recommendations span every category. Some are full-on luxury splurges like the Breville espresso machine (1.3M views and 142K likes), which retails for upwards of $500, or Cozy Earth sheets and blankets (225K views and 39K likes), which can cost between $200 and $300. Others feel a bit more attainable, though they’re still highly specific, “treat yourself”... Let's talk --> Stay on the Pulse Latest Stories Gen Z’s Swipe Fatigue Is Reshaping Dating Apps Sep 1 2026 The Top 10 Movies Gen Z Plans to See This Fall Aug 31 2026 Another Day, Another Brand Controversy on The Viral List Aug 28 2026 4 Brands Going Full Gen Z for Back to School Aug 27 2026 Young Europeans Living at Home, Debunked Aug 26 2026 Related Articles Article Gen Z’s Swipe Fatigue Is Reshaping Dating Apps To respond to Gen Z’s dating app fatigue, platforms are rethinking the experience with new features, IRL events, and more entertaining marketing… North America Sep 1 2026 Article The Top 10 Movies Gen Z Plans to See This Fall Gen Z’s fall movie plans are booked with nostalgic films, franchise favori tes, and huge blockbusters… North America Aug 31 2026 Article Another Day, Another Brand Controversy on The Viral List This week, brand controversy galore, Gen Z testing their literacy, and brands’ “ bevolutio n ” launches are all going viral … North America , Western Europe Aug 28 2026 YPulse Weekly Newsletter Get our editors’ weekly picks on the Gen Z and Alpha stories you need to know. Your newsletter subscriptions are subject to YPulse’s Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions . Know what young people want next. Get a Demo Research intelligence on Gen Alpha, Gen Z, and Millennials, ages 8-39 SOLUTIONS Insights Platform AI MCP Tweens Custom Research Pricing FREE RESOURCES Alpha Tweens Hello Sunshine x YPulse 2026 Teen Cool Brands Get the Newsletter COMPANY Contact LEGAL Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Manage Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes. Manage options Manage services Manage {vendor_count} vendors Read more about these purposes Accept Deny View preferences Save preferences View preferences {title} {title} {title} Manage Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes. Manage options Manage services Manage {vendor_count} vendors Read more about these purposes Accept Deny View preferences Save preferences View preferences {title} {title} {title} Manage consent Manage consent Enter your colleagues' emails (max 10) to invite them to sign up for a YPulse account. We'll send them a message and let them know you invited them. Team Member Email Team Member Email Team Member Email Team Member Email Team Member Email Team Member Email Team Member Email Team Member Email Team Member Email Team Member Email Are these emails correct? If so, click Submit Invitation(s)? Submit Invitation(s)