Judge finds probable cause that Mike Lindell's July Fourth pillow handouts violated Minnesota campaign law - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Politics Judge finds probable cause that Mike Lindell's July Fourth pillow handouts violated Minnesota campaign law By Aki Nace Aki Nace Digital Producer, CBS Minnesota Aki Nace has been a web producer for CBS Minnesota since 2019. She covers breaking news and makes short-form documentary films. Read Full Bio Aki Nace Updated on: August 6, 2026 / 5:49 PM EDT / CBS Minnesota Add CBS News on Google A case against Minnesota Republican gubernatorial candidate Mike Lindell will continue after a judge decided Thursday there is probable cause to believe he violated campaign laws by giving away pillows promoting his candidacy at a July Fourth parade. A complaint filed July 22 alleged Lindell "threw pillows to spectators" during the parade in Delano, Minnesota. The packaging on the pillows said "Mike Lindell for Governor," and the pillows are valued at $34.95, according to the complaint. Lindell, who recently stepped down as CEO of his company MyPillow, confirmed that he and other campaign staffers handed out the pillows, which featured campaign materials. However, the pillows were purchased wholesale for $4.90 each, Lindell said at Thursday's hearing. He added that his campaign took steps to ensure it was complying with campaign laws, and said the pillows could be purchased with a promo code for $9.95. Minnesota law states that a person who "pays, gives, promises or lends any money, food, liquor, clothing, entertainment or other thing of monetary value ... in order to induce a voter to refrain from voting, or to vote in a particular way, at an election, is guilty of a felony." The statute states that refreshments or food with a value up to $5 consumed on the premises of a public or private gathering is exempt. During the hearing, Lindell submitted affidavits, an invoice for the purchase of the pillows and photographs of the campaign event. Judge Nicholas Lienesch determined there is probable cause to believe Lindell violated Minnesota campaign law, and the case will move forward to a panel of three administrative law judges and an evidentiary hearing. The date of the hearing has not been determined. "This is a nonsensical distraction, it means nothing. I am focused on my budget," said Lindell about the hearing. Lindell is one of the front-runners on the Republican side of the gubernatorial race, touting a recent endorsement from President Trump. Lindell has been one of the president's strongest allies, repeating the false claim that the 2020 election was stolen. Still, Lindell is seen as an outsider by the Minnesota GOP, which has recently questioned his residency status . His opponents in Tuesday's primary include businessman Kendall Qualls and Minnesota House Speaker Lisa Demuth. More from CBS News Tennessee voters to choose gubernatorial nominees, and more races to watch today Where the Trump administration's lawsuits seeking voter data stand House Democrats targeting 12 new GOP districts, including Lauren Boebert's seat Behind closed doors, Trump, White House aides hope Rep. Max Miller exits race Go deeper with The Free Press Big-Tent Politics Won’t Save the Democrats The Folly of ‘Affordability’ Politics In: Mike Lindell Minnesota © 2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. Hennepin County sheriff says feds threatened her with arrest, and more headlines Hennepin County sheriff says feds threatened her with arrest, and more headlines 07:41 Hennepin County sheriff says feds threatened her with arrest, and more headlines (07:41) Tennessee voters to choose gubernatorial nominees, and more races to watch today Where the Trump administration's lawsuits seeking voter data stand House Democrats targeting 12 new GOP districts, including Lauren Boebert's seat Big-Tent Politics Won’t Save the Democrats Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue