Mexico: Influencer shot dead during livestream Skip to content Skip to main menu Skip to more DW sites Latest videos Latest audio Regions Africa Asia Europe Latin America Middle East North America Germany Topics Climate Equality Health Human Rights Migration Technology Categories Business Science Environment Culture Sports In focus Ukraine Iran war Trump tariffs Latest audio Latest videos Live TV Advertisement Crime Mexico Mexico: Influencer shot dead during livestream Seerat Chabba with Reuters, AFP 08/05/2026 August 5, 2026 Cesar Gastelum, a Mexican influencer with nearly 600,000 followers on TikTok and other social media platforms, was shot dead in the middle of a livestream. https://p.dw.com/p/5IIBn The killing comes amid persistent violence in Culiacan [July 2026] Image: Jesus Verdugo/AFP Advertisement Mexican social media influencer Cesar Gastelum was shot and killed on Tuesday while livestreaming with friends outside a fast food restaurant in Culiacan, in the northwestern state of Sinaloa, local authorities said. The livestream, which was originally posted on an unspecified platform, later circulated elsewhere on social media. Gastelum, who had close to 600,000 followers on TikTok and many other followers on Instagram and other platforms, was known for his comedy content. He was broadcasting live outside the restaurant with two friends, all reportedly dressed as delivery drivers as part of a challenge for the video. What do we know? During the stream, a motorcycle carrying two people pulled up beside them. Footage from the livestream appeared to show the motorcycle driver shooting at Gastelum's head directly. The broadcast cut out at that moment. While news agencies reported that the video was later taken down, portions of it continued to circulate online. A security official in Sinaloa confirmed Gastelum's death and said a major security operation was under way. Local television footage showed soldiers and police at the scene, a busy commercial plaza near the state prosecutor's office in Culiacan, while forensic investigators collected evidence. Initial police reports described the victim as a delivery worker. He was later identified as Gastelum, who local media reported was around 25 years old, after the video and witness accounts helped confirm his identity. We met a cartel killer — who really runs Mexico? To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video Culiacan at the center of a conflict between rival crime factions Culiacan, the capital of Sinaloa, has been gripped by violence for the past two years amid an internal power struggle within the region's dominant drug cartel. Local press have reported that several influencers, some allegedly linked to criminal groups, have been killed in Sinaloa in recent years. The killing echoes the May 2025 death of beauty influencer Valeria Marquez , 23, who was shot while livestreaming on TikTok at the salon where she worked in Zapopan, in Mexico’s western state of Jalisco. Her death was investigated as possible femicide. Local authorities arrested Ramon Angel Alvarez Ayala, also known as "El R-1," in Jalisco in July. Security Minister Omar Garcia Harfuch described him as the head of a criminal cell tied to the Jalisco New Generation Cartel (CJNG). Investigators say Alvarez Ayala played a role in Marquez's death and that he financed and directed the November 2025 assassination of Uruapan Mayor Carlos Manzo. Edited by: Roshni Majumdar and Rebecca Staudenmaier Editor's note from August 6, 2026: This article has been updated to further clarify that the livestream of the attack did not take place on TikTok, but rather another, as yet unidentified, social media platform. While DW did not report that Cesar Gastelum had been streaming on TikTok, we have updated the article to make that distinction clearer. Don't let the algorithm hide the news. If you rely on our team for trusted reporting, please take a moment to select us as your Preferred Source on Google by clicking here and hitting the "star" or "preferred" button, so you'll always see our verified news first. Send us your feedback Your feedback Advertisement Skip next section Explore more Explore more US charges Mexico’s Sinaloa state governor with drug trafficking US charges Mexico’s Sinaloa state governor with drug trafficking The US indictment alleges that Ruben Rocha Moya conspired to move drugs from the Sinaloa Cartel into the US, in exchange for political support Politics 04/30/2026 April 30, 2026 Skip next section More on Crime from Latin America More on Crime from Latin America US, Ecuador forces strike alleged drug smuggling boat In March, Ecuador joined a US-led coalition to combat drug trafficking in Latin America. Crime 08/29/2026 August 29, 2026 Haiti: UN chief condemns Haiti attack that killed 47 The UN Secretary General has condemned a violent attack that left at least 47 dead and saw over 50 more kidnapped. Crime 08/26/2026 August 26, 2026 We met a cartel killer — who really runs Mexico? DW spoke exclusively with hitmen, politicians and family members about who is running Mexico. Crime 08/01/2026 August 1, 2026 22:21 min Show more Skip next section Related topics Related topics Revealing what's hidden: DW Investigations Hernandez, Anabel Mexico Footer About DW Who we are Press DW Global Media Forum DW offers Learn German DW Akademie Service Newsletters Reception FAQ Contact Topics from A to Z Headlines B2B Sales & Distribution Travel Advertising German News Service Follow us on Add DW as preferred source on Google © 2026 Deutsche Welle Privacy Policy Legal notice Digital accessibility Data privacy settings