Electronic tagging system failing to alert authorities of probation breaches, watchdog warns | Prisons and probation | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland The number of people in England and Wales being electronically monitored has doubled in five years. Photograph: Mark Richardson/Alamy View image in fullscreen The number of people in England and Wales being electronically monitored has doubled in five years. Photograph: Mark Richardson/Alamy Prisons and probation Electronic tagging system failing to alert authorities of probation breaches, watchdog warns Probation inspector for England and Wales says ‘clunky’ system needs huge increase in staff Rajeev Syal Home affairs editor Tue 4 Aug 2026 13.45 EDT First published on Tue 4 Aug 2026 10.14 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google The electronic tagging system that will be relied upon to monitor thousands of offenders released early from prison is failing to alert the authorities of potential breaches of conditions, a watchdog has warned. Martin Jones, HM inspector of probation in England and Wales, said the system relied on hard-pressed police and probation officers looking up individual cases and then deciding whether potential breaches needed to be investigated further. He said it needed to be updated to send alerts to the authorities if a former inmate breached an exclusion zone from which they were banned. His demand comes after the government announced that up to 5,000 prisoners would be released from 1 October to ease the prison overcrowding crisis. At present, there are 86,500 people behind bars with 2,400 spare places. Andy Burnham paused the scheme last month and on Tuesday he announced plans to exclude prisoners guilty of rape, serious child sexual abuse offences and grooming, reducing the number of releases by 1,000. Killers and domestic abusers will still be eligible for early release, the Ministry of Justice has confirmed. Line graph showing projected prison population in 2030 The prime minister has assured the public that offenders will face tighter community supervision, including new GPS monitoring. Jones, in an interview with the Guardian, said he had recently launched an inspection of offender tagging, and had seen that the system was coming under strain and needed to be upgraded to “minimise the risk to the public”. “Some of the systems are pretty clunky and it’s far too reliant on people looking for the information rather than the information being fed or pushed to practitioners as a matter of course,” he said. “Tagging has potential to improve public perception of victims’ safety. But only if it used properly and if there is a wider system and enough staff to support that. If not, there is a risk that you give false assurances to the public.” The number of people in England and Wales being electronically monitored has doubled to 28,700 in five years, and the number of newly tagged each year is expected to rise to 22,000 from 2027. Jones said this expansion needed a huge increase in staff to monitor offenders. The prison population has fallen under Labour An early review of Jones’s inspection, across six regions in England, found: Probation officers wrongly assuming they would be notified about breaches of exclusion zones, when they were required to conduct a specific search. Data was not being actively monitored or analysed to reduce risk to the public. “Significant complexity” was involved in managing the monitoring process, leaving probation officers “overwhelmed and disengaged” by the volume of correspondence. Jones said: “My concern is this: have the processes and the system kept apace with the number of people being tagged? Because ultimately all tagging gives you is information about where somebody is at a particular point in time. You are relying on having sufficient police officers and probation officers to look at that information and make a decision about how it informs your picture on the activities of that individual.” Last month the National Audit Office found that the rapid expansion of electronic tagging to reduce pressure on prisons would put public safety at risk unless there were robust improvements. ‘We fought for a tougher sentence’: victims’ families’ fury over early release scheme Read more Jones also called for the government to ensure that there were enough staff in approved premises , which are hostels set up to monitor 2,000 of the most serious offenders when they are first released from prison. “Our research shows that approved premises work. [They] are extremely effective at managing people after their initial release from custody. What a missed opportunity if those premises cannot remain open because of our insufficient staff,” he said. After a review of the plans, rapists and serious child sexual offenders, including grooming gang perpetrators, will no longer be eligible for the early release scheme. But those given custodial sentences for domestic abuse, and criminals guilty of manslaughter, will still be eligible to be freed halfway through their sentence. Alex Norris, the justice secretary, has apologised to families affected, saying they were “carrying the can from previous failures”. He acknowledged the proposals had “created harm” for those grieving, such as the wife of PC Andrew Harper, Lissie. “I would express how angry I am, too, at being in a situation where we’re having to make significant changes that do have real impacts on people’s lives, so that we are able to have a functioning prison system,” he said. Harper’s mother, Debbie Adlam, said her family was “paying the price” after learning her son’s killers remained eligible for early release under the plans. Sarah Champion, the Labour MP for Rotherham, has written to Burnham, telling him that victims would “remain in a state of fear and limbo” unless domestic abusers were no longer included in the early release scheme. She told the prime minister: “I fully support the government’s ambitious goal to reduce violence against women and girls and tackle serious sexual offences. However, without reinstating the exemption to the early release scheme, I fail to see how that is possible.” Explore more on these topics Prisons and probation UK criminal justice England Wales news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Prisoner early release scheme gives Burnham his first taste of unpopularity 10h ago About 1,000 fewer prisoners to get early release as Burnham tightens rules 9h ago PM to tighten early release rules but men jailed over PC Harper’s death can be freed 15h ago More prisoners in England and Wales are recalled than released for first time 5d ago Burnham stirs up political row with review of release plans for violent criminals 22 Jul 2026 Lack of safeguards over prisoners’ early release puts abuse victims at risk, Lammy warned 8 Jul 2026 Prison officers given more training to avoid being manipulated into illicit relationships with inmates 15 Apr 2026 Tens of thousands of prisoners in England and Wales at risk of cell fires 19 Mar 2026 ‘Missed opportunities’ to prevent woman’s death in prison cell fire, inquest finds 17 Mar 2026 Most viewed Most viewed UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)