Perez Hilton hospitalised after livestreaming self-harm on Tiktok | Perez Hilton | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters Perez Hilton, whose real name is Mario Armando Lavandeira Jr, rose to fame in the mid-2000s for his caustic celebrity commentary on his self-titled blog. Photograph: David Becker/Getty Images View image in fullscreen Perez Hilton, whose real name is Mario Armando Lavandeira Jr, rose to fame in the mid-2000s for his caustic celebrity commentary on his self-titled blog. Photograph: David Becker/Getty Images Perez Hilton Perez Hilton hospitalised after livestreaming self-harm on Tiktok Emergency services were seen outside Hilton’s home in Miami on Tuesday night after members of the public reported seeing Hilton harm himself Sian Cain Wed 5 Aug 2026 02.15 EDT Last modified on Wed 5 Aug 2026 04.31 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google The celebrity blogger Perez Hilton has been hospitalised after livestreaming footage of himself self-harming on TikTok. Emergency services were seen outside Hilton’s home in Miami on Tuesday night after concerned members of the public reported seeing Hilton harm himself in a graphic video streamed live on TikTok. Hilton’s TikTok account was suspended minutes later. In a statement to media on Tuesday, the Miami-Dade sheriff’s office did not name Hilton but confirmed they were attending a scene after receiving reports from the public about a man “livestreaming acts of self-harm on social media.” Outside the house they met with members of his family and chose to “tactically disengage” while monitoring the situation, the statement read. “In many incidents involving a person experiencing a mental health crisis or actively harming themselves, deputies prioritize de-escalation by creating time, distance, and opportunities for communication,” the Miami-Dade sheriff’s office said. “Unless there is an immediate threat to others, slowing the situation and utilizing crisis intervention techniques can reduce the likelihood of a suicide-by-cop encounter and minimize the risk of injury to the individual, deputies and the public.” The man was alone in his home during the time of the live stream, deputies confirmed. Later on Tuesday, the Miami-Dade sheriff’s office said that the unnamed man had been “safely recovered and transported by Miami-Dade Fire Rescue to a local hospital, where he is receiving medical attention”. Hilton’s managers, Dante Rusciolelli and Rebekah Kochan, told TMZ in a joint statement that they were “aware of the concerning content circulating online involving our client, Perez Hilton”. “At this time, we have not been able to make direct contact with him, despite our ongoing efforts to reach him,” they said. “Our primary concern is Perez’s health and well-being, as well as the well-being of his family. Until we have confirmed information, we will not speculate or comment further. We appreciate everyone’s concern and ask that his privacy be respected during this time.” Hilton, whose real name is Mario Armando Lavandeira Jr, rose to fame in the mid-2000s for his caustic celebrity commentary on his self-titled blog. While it was hugely popular for a time, its popularity eventually declined and Hilton moved his career into reality television and podcasting. In June he announced he had moved with his three young children from Las Vegas to Miami. In the US, you can call or text the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline at 988 or chat at 988lifeline.org . In the UK and Ireland, Samaritans can be contacted on freephone 116 123. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is 13 11 14. Other international helplines can be found at befrienders.org Explore more on these topics Perez Hilton Mental health Miami news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)