Why many parents help support children well into adulthood : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Why many parents help support children well into adulthood Polls show most Americans think young adults today have it harder financially than past generations. A majority of parents help their grown children with expenses, even if it hurts their own finances. Family Amid cost of living stress, many parents are supporting children well into adulthood August 7, 2026 5:00 AM ET Jennifer Ludden Mabel Lago and her husband, Tom, on their 50th wedding anniversary. They built their 1,500-square foot retirement home in South Carolina a bit larger than they might have, to include a bedroom for their 39-year-old son. Mabel Lago hide caption toggle caption Mabel Lago Mabel Lago and her husband are retired and in their 70s. But before they decided to move from New Jersey to South Carolina this year, they checked with their younger son. That's because he was still living with them, at age 39. "We could not leave him behind, because he could not afford to live on his own," she said. Her son is a hard worker, she explains, but his job helping to manage a liquor store paid low wages and no benefits. He also has Type 1 diabetes, and his Affordable Care Act insurance was nearly a thousand dollars a month. So he came with them to South Carolina, where his plan now is a lot cheaper — but he hasn't yet landed a new job. Sponsor Message "The young people have really been shafted, big time, with the economy, with the cost of living," Lago said. She is among a majority of Americans who, according to polls , think it's more difficult for young adults today to achieve financial independence than it was for their parents. It's a view that's grown sharply in recent years, as prices for essentials such as housing, food and energy have shot up and inflation has stayed stubbornly elevated. Economy The renter-owner wealth gap is wider than ever, as many are priced out of buying Such concerns partly explain why most parents help support their grown children in some way, many well beyond the traditional age of financial independence. The share of 25- to 34-year-olds living with parents has also nearly doubled since 2005, to about 20%, according to the Urban Institute. One analysis found a third of all those under 35 are living back at home , just shy of the record peak during the COVID-19 pandemic, even though most are employed. Lago and her husband built their 1,500-square-foot retirement home in South Carolina a bit larger than they might have, to include a bedroom for their son. They also gave part of the land they bought to their older son, 43, who has a well-paying job but has not been able to buy a house on his single income. But he just built one next door, with money his parents gave him from their own inheritance. Sponsor Message From left to right: Tom, Mabel, Chad and Ross Lago Mabel Lago hide caption toggle caption Mabel Lago Lago is happy to help, but she and her husband have to watch their spending carefully. This year, as gas and food prices spiked, they cut back on driving and stopped eating beef. Now, they're thinking not only of their own long-term finances, but also that of their sons. "Did we plan for that when we had our children 40 years ago? No," she said. "Do we plan for that now? Yes, we have to." "A different economic landscape" Some parents have long helped children — pitching in so they can buy a first home, for example. But over recent decades, as families have gotten smaller and people marry later, researchers have found more parents have done so and in larger amounts. Business More Americans are going bankrupt. What does that mean? "Young adults are kind of coming of age in a different economic landscape than their parents did," said Rachel Minkin, a researcher at the Pew Research Center. A Pew survey this year found a growing majority of Americans say it's harder today for young people to find a job, pay for college, buy a home and save for the future. In a new survey question, 80% even agreed that "it's harder for young adults today to cover basic expenses," Minkin said. A 2024 Pew analysis found young adults are also more likely to have student loan debt compared to three decades ago. And while the share with mortgage debt was about the same, the median amount of that debt adjusted for inflation was larger. This changing economic landscape has helped fuel the rise in adult children living with parents. An AARP survey last year found 75% of parents across income levels help support adult children in some way, from paying cellphone and Wi-Fi fees, to helping with transportation and rent, or giving straight cash. On average, that amounts to $7,000 a year. "What's striking is that so many of the people we see in our survey actually were living independently for a while and then went back in with their parents, primarily because of financial pressures," said Richard Johnson, who leads a financial security policy team at AARP. Most give because they want to, not because children need it, according to the survey. But many lower-income families said they help even though it hurts their own finances. Sponsor Message "When people have to divert what little resources they have to help their children, and they can't put it toward retirement, that jeopardizes their own financial futures," Johnson said. Advising parents to protect their own retirement Nate Kinzinger, a wealth manager affiliated with the financial services firm Northwestern Mutual, has seen this shift during his 25-year career. He's had clients delay retirement in part to continue supporting adult children. So many have stepped in to pay student loan debt that he now advises families to consider the "return on investment" from a given field of study. Clients also help with down payments or high rent, especially when children live in big cities where the cost of living can far exceed early-career wages. Others pay a monthly stipend. "There's usually some degree of guilt, you know, and there's some degree of, well, the money's in my account, so I can do it,'" he said. National Gen Z homeowners? Yes, more in their 20s are managing to buy despite the odds Some continue regular payments even after retirement, he said, not understanding they will need that money later. "And so we'll have to have those conversations of, all right, how do we close this gap for you, cause I'm not comfortable that you could continue doing this," Kinzinger said. This year, Northwestern Mutual found in its own survey that 42% of Americans still feel financially dependent on their parents. That included a third of Gen Xers, who are now middle-aged. "That was a bit of a shocking number," he said. The survey did not delve into the reasons why, but that cohort includes many of the parents helping struggling young adult children. David Zucchero and his wife, Cindy Zucchero, are retired near Seattle. Their daughter and her family moved back in with them so she could become a stay-at-home mother. David Zucchero hide caption toggle caption David Zucchero Is it coddling or the new norm? David Zucchero and his wife are retired, living near Seattle, and have children ages 31, 32 and 34. Helping them out is "just an ongoing thing for all three kids," he said, and it's "gotten worse in the last, I'd say, five to eight years." To be clear, he's well-off and all the children — or a spouse — make good pay. Over the years, the parents have helped with education and handed down old cars. But Seattle area home prices are double the national median. A year ago, one daughter moved back home, with her husband and now two young kids, so she could be a stay-at-home mom. Another daughter wants to rent out her condo and move back home to cut down on expenses. And their son and his family? They live with his wife's parents. Sponsor Message "When I look at the salaries these kids make, I'm like, 'how can you not live on this?'" Zucchero said. "But they can't." The Zucchero family in 2017, from left to right: Stephanie, Natalie, David, Cindy and David Jr. David Zucchero hide caption toggle caption David Zucchero At least not comfortably, he added, admitting that he and his wife are guilty of coddling them. Zucchero's best friend chides him about it. But everyone else seems to be in the same boat. "One or two of the kids are living at home," he said. "Neighbors, same thing, one right behind us. The kid's been living there probably 10 years, he's in his 40s." For now, he and his wife are not charging rent or setting deadlines for anyone to move out. The truth is, they love having the children and grandkids around. cost of living Housing Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR National Trump signs new orders targeting birthright citizenship, weeks after SCOTUS ruling Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after Business This is how close American households are to the financial edge Sports Shirtless fans cheer at MLB stadiums as "Tarps Off" trend sweeps baseball world National Congress tackles crises of lowering housing costs and boosting overall housing supply Economy Employers unexpectedly cut 23,000 jobs in a sign of a wilting labor market More Stories From NPR National Independent autopsy 'inconclusive' on cause of death for 18-year-old Nolan Wells in Mississippi National At Mississippi funeral, civil rights leaders call for justice for Nolan Wells, 18 It's Been a Minute The fame and (mis)fortune of family influencing Your Life Kit for love and relationships What a divorce coach wishes couples knew before ending a marriage Life Kit How to find middle ground when your partner wants kids — and you don't Family More people are juggling work and kids -- and finding they can't give 100% to both Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Up First Newsletter Trump targets birthright citizenship. And, Iran aims to ban U.S. from Strait of Hormuz Movie Reviews The new movie about Anthony Bourdain is none of the things you fear it could be National Trump signs new orders targeting birthright citizenship, weeks after SCOTUS ruling Middle East conflict Iran aims to ban U.S. and Israeli ships from Strait of Hormuz and charge others a toll Real Talk With a Doc Everyone's talking about hormone therapy for menopause. Should I be on it? Technology Kalshi and Polymarket bets on clinical trials criticized as 'ghastly' NPR Editors' Picks The Americas Colombia's new president vows to remake the country — and challenge its fragile peace Politics Blanche's path to confirmation appears clear after winning key Republican's support Economy Employers unexpectedly cut 23,000 jobs in a sign of a wilting labor market Music Can Role Model move past his viral moment by leaning into authenticity? Global Health A new vaccine could vanquish a major cause of deadly diarrheal disease The Ripple Effect Why Andy Cohen is a Deadhead for life Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices