Senate passes short-term bill to prevent a shutdown before the midterm elections IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Meet the Press U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Meet the Press U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Government Shutdown Senate passes short-term bill to prevent a shutdown before the midterm elections The bipartisan measure would keep money flowing through Dec. 11. Neither party had an appetite to risk a shutdown ahead of November’s elections, with voters in an anti-incumbency mood. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 The Senate passed a bill to keep the government funded through Dec. 11. Aaron Schwartz / Bloomberg via Getty Images Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 8, 2026, 4:00 AM EDT / Updated Aug. 8, 2026, 7:40 AM EDT By Sahil Kapur , Frank Thorp V and Brennan Leach WASHINGTON — The Senate voted 90-6 early Saturday to pass a short-term funding bill to remove the threat of a government shutdown before the midterm elections. The legislation , advanced in a late-night session that stretched into the early hours, would keep federal funds flowing through Dec. 11 at existing levels to give time to negotiate a full-year deal. It was negotiated by the two parties and includes some modest add-ons, including a provision demanded by Democrats aimed at preventing President Donald Trump from blocking federal grants to blue states for political reasons. It also includes some adjustments to preserve the SNAP and WIC food programs, in addition to disaster relief and national security measures. The bill now goes to the House, which needs to approve it and send it to Trump to become law by Sept. 30 in order to avert a shutdown beginning Oct. 1. If so, it would prevent the sort of brinkmanship that has become common in Congress ahead of the fall deadline. There is a broad anti-incumbency mood in the electorate that has afflicted both parties during this primary season, and neither side wanted to risk a shutdown that could carry treacherous political consequences just before Election Day on Nov. 3. The House passed a different short-term government funding bill last month before leaving for the August recess. After wrapping up some lingering business, the Senate also adjourned for the month just before 5 a.m. ET. Senators are set to return on Sept. 14. Share Add NBC News to Google Sahil Kapur Sahil Kapur is a senior national political reporter for NBC News. Frank Thorp V Frank Thorp V is a coordinating producer and off-air reporter covering Congress for NBC News, managing coverage of the Senate. Brennan Leach Brennan Leach is an associate producer for NBC News covering the Senate. About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC