Behind closed doors, Trump and White House officials hope Rep. Max Miller drops reelection bid, sources say - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Spokane Wildfires World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War Spokane Wildfires World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Politics Behind closed doors, Trump and White House officials hope Rep. Max Miller drops reelection bid, sources say By Jennifer Jacobs , Jennifer Jacobs Senior White House reporter Jennifer Jacobs is a senior White House reporter at CBS News. Read Full Bio Jennifer Jacobs , Fin Daniel Gómez Fin Daniel Gómez Political Director and Executive Director of Politics and White House, CBS News Fin Daniel Gómez is CBS News' political director and executive director, Politics and White House. In this role, Gómez oversees the daily White House and political coverage for CBS News and works closely with Washington bureau leadership to inform the Network's political coverage. Read Full Bio Fin Daniel Gómez Updated on: August 4, 2026 / 2:02 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Washington — Some White House officials hope embattled GOP Rep. Max Miller exits the congressional race in Ohio immediately, and President Trump has expressed a similar sentiment behind closed doors, multiple U.S. officials familiar with the matter tell CBS News. Mr. Trump called Miller on Monday and raised concerns about his reelection bid following allegations that Miller assaulted his ex-wife , Emily Moreno, and their 2-year-old daughter, two sources directly familiar with the call confirmed to CBS News. But Miller, who has adamantly denied the allegations, told the president he has no plans to leave the race, according to one of the sources. Miller, the GOP nominee, has until 4 p.m. Wednesday to withdraw his candidacy and give Republicans a chance to replace him on the ballot in November. Semafor first reported that the president and some White House aides said privately that they wanted Miller out of the race. On Tuesday morning, Miller said he would file the paperwork to launch a congressional ethics investigation into himself in an effort to clear his name. "In light of all the renewed interest in my family affairs I am going to file my own paperwork for an ethics investigation into myself to clear my name from these horrific attacks on myself and family," Miller wrote on X . "I have absolutely nothing to hide. We will be providing the committee all necessary documents needed for a detail[ed] examination. The accusations continue to change, but my facts stay the same. I am looking forward to my colleagues reading everything for themselves." On Monday, the president said he thought Miller was a "very good person" and said he would let the families involved resolve the situation. "Well, it's a very sad thing," the president told reporters in the Oval Office Monday. "I know Max, he's a good person, I mean, I always thought he was a very good person. And I'm going to let the families figure that out. Those families, I know they're working on it. It's a very sad thing. Especially when you know somebody so well to be going through that. But it's accusations. And I'm going to let them figure that out." In an earlier statement to CBS News on Monday, Miller said: "If I dropped out of this race, it would mean we as a nation have fallen so far from our American values. I will not validate false claims by removing myself just to please the court of public opinion. I am innocent of all of the allegations that have been attributed to me. I have done well representing my constituents' interests. Why would I drop out?" Emily Moreno, Miller's ex-wife, is the daughter of Ohio GOP Sen. Bernie Moreno. The senator said in a statement on Sunday that Miller "should not serve in the House of Representatives" and "needs serious psychological help." Kathryn Watson contributed to this report. 2026 Midterm Elections More Mike Lindell stepping down as MyPillow CEO to focus on Minnesota governor's race Senate candidate Haley Stevens stands firm on backing U.S. military aid to Israel What to know about primaries in 5 states today: Michigan, Virginia and more Trump raises concerns in call with Rep. Max Miller amid abuse allegations Senate candidate El-Sayed questions assumption Michigan voters are moderates Go deeper with The Free Press Will Republicans Renounce Max Miller? What Happens After Trump?: Why Tim Miller Thinks Politics Can’t Go Back © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Sources: Trump hopes Max Miller ends campaign Trump and White House officials hope Rep. Max Miller ends reelection bid, sources say 02:39 Trump and White House officials hope Rep. Max Miller ends reelection bid, sources say (02:39) Trump raises concerns in call with Rep. Max Miller amid abuse allegations House Ethics probing Rep. Max Miller for alleged domestic violence, drug use Pirro brought box of evidence to show Trump what caused Reflecting Pool damage Will Republicans Renounce Max Miller? Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest MLB Trade Deadline Predictions NFL Overrated QBs Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue