Israel charges settler over killing of Palestinian involved in Oscar-winning West Bank film - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat World Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East Israel charges settler over killing of Palestinian involved in Oscar-winning West Bank film Image source, @Kivsa_shchora/Masafering Image caption, Odeh Hathaleen was shot in Umm Al-Khair village in the occupied West Bank By Henry Moore Published 3 hours ago Israeli prosecutors have charged a settler over the killing of a Palestinian activist in the occupied West Bank who helped film Oscar-winning documentary No Other Land. Yinon Levy was charged with reckless manslaughter over the July 2025 shooting of Odeh Hathaleen, according to Israel's Southern District Prosecutor's Office. Israeli rights group B'Tselem said it was the first time an Israeli had been indicted for killing a Palestinian in the West Bank for nearly three years. A lawyer for Hathaleen's family said they hoped the charges marked a "turning point" in the consequences settlers face for violence against Palestinians. In a letter seen by The Associated Press, Levy said he would fight for his innocence in court. He wrote that prosecutors should not penalise acts of self-defence and accused them of providing "de facto support for terrorism", the news agency reported. A lawyer for Levy, Avichai Hajbi, told the AP the prosecution had made a "mistaken decision". The charges against Levy also include ​armed trespassing and malicious property damage during the incident in which settlers operated an excavator in the Palestinian village of Umm al-Khair, leading to a confrontation with residents. According to the indictment, at some point during the confrontation Levy cocked his gun and fired in the direction of residents, hitting Hathaleen. He then fired another shot into the air, prosecutors said. Footage of the incident was shared widely online. Levy has previously denied firing the shot that killed Hathaleen. The indictment is the first since the 7 October 2023 Hamas-led attack on southern Israel which triggered the Gaza war and led to a rise in settler violence in the West Bank, B'Tselem said. At least 1,110 Palestinians have been killed by Israeli soldiers and settlers in the West Bank since then, according to the UN. At least 41 Israelis have been killed either by a Palestinian armed group or civilian in the West Bank during the same period, the UN said. B'Tselem described the decision to indict Levy as the "exception that proves the rule". "The impunity Israel grants to soldiers and settlers who harm Palestinians is not a failure of the system - it is a central component of a policy designed to allow the violence to continue and escalate," it said. Mattan Berner-Kadish, an Israeli-American activist who was at the scene , told the BBC: "I think the general reaction is happiness that anything is happening while also feeling that it should be a murder charge and a longer maximum sentence. "Mixed feelings but also certainly pleasantly surprised and happy there might be consequences," he added. Hathaleen, a teacher and father-of-three, was a prominent voice against settler violence in the occupied West Bank. He featured in the 2025 Oscar-winning film No Other Land, that follows the legal fight between the Israeli government and Palestinians over Masafer Yatta, a West Bank community of about 20 villages. Israel's Supreme Court ruled to allow the demolition of homes and expulsion of more than 1,000 villagers in 2022. Levy, a leader of an outpost farm, was sanctioned by the UK in 2024 because he "used physical aggression, threatened families at gunpoint, and destroyed property as part of a targeted and calculated effort to displace Palestinian communities", the UK government said at the time. He denied the allegations to the BBC in 2024. He was also sanctioned by the US under the Biden administration but those sanctions were subsequently lifted under President Donald Trump. Additional reporting by Mallory Moench Related topics West Bank Israel Israel & the Palestinians Palestinian territories BBC speaks to Palestinians targeted by Israeli settlers Published 26 July More on this story Israeli West Bank settler tells BBC attacks on Palestinians are justified as revenge Published 5 days ago The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens 1:03 Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show. 00:01:03, play video Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show 0:58 Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:58 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns. 00:00:58, play video Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:19 England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations. 00:01:19, play video England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya Top stories Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption Published 16 minutes ago Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases Published 8 hours ago Uefa says boycott may still go ahead as FA withdraws Infantino support Published 5 hours ago More to explore The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Steve the featherless parrot gets his colour back Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives Why aren't more women getting into padel? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 Arrests in Thetford as disorder continues for third night 2 Artificial Intelligence used to design brand new viruses 3 Met Police boss admits mistake over plagiarism row 4 Amanda Knox defends Fringe comedy show after claims it will 'trivialise violence' 5 South Korea space agency shares Moon images after SpaceX rocket debris crash 6 Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order 7 Former duke chased by alleged stalker, court hears 8 Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption 9 Boxer charged with killing aid worker in Athens after his wife gave police 'key' details 10 Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.