UK police confirm Uganda boxers unaccounted for after Commonwealth Games | Boxing News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up Sport | Boxing UK police confirm Uganda boxers unaccounted for after Commonwealth Games Athletes from Uganda and Pakistan were reported ‘missing’ after failing to return home from 2026 Commonwealth Games. Listen (2 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google Nuhu Batte, Team Uganda boxing captain, is among those missing after Commonwealth Games in United Kingdom [Lintao Zhang/Getty Images] By AFP Published On 6 Aug 2026 6 Aug 2026 Police in the United Kingdom have confirmed that members of the Ugandan boxing team were unaccounted for after they participated in the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow. Police Scotland said in a statement that it had “received reports of several athletes who are unaccounted for” and that it was conducting “enquiries” and engaging with the Home Office. Recommended Stories list of 4 items list 1 of 4 FIFA pledges to defend Infantino after World Cup rights plan collapses list 2 of 4 UEFA’s threatened legal action against Infantino and FIFA: What we know list 3 of 4 Ex-Arsenal boss Wenger was ‘not aware’ of Infantino’s FIFA plan list 4 of 4 UEFA confirms legal letter served to FIFA after Infantino’s World Cup plan end of list About 3,000 athletes from 74 nations competed in the 2026 Commonwealth Games in Scotland’s largest city, with the closing ceremony held on Sunday. Only two members of the Ugandan boxing team of six have returned to Uganda, the president of the Uganda Boxing Federation, Moses Muhangi, told the AFP news agency in Kampala after the first athletes arrived on Tuesday evening. Moses said those who had not returned were the team captain, Nuhu Batte, as well as one other male and two female team members. The boxing team members who returned home included a grandson of former Ugandan dictator Idi Amin, Aziz Abdul, who was disqualified for a headbutt in his quarterfinal. Moses said it was “too early to say that the four boxers disappeared”, noting the athletes’ UK visas were still valid and team members were free to visit friends and family. He said several team members were meant to return “later this week” and others at the weekend. “It is too early to call it disappearance. Let us wait until their visas expire,” Moses said. The chief executive of the Games, Phil Batty, on Monday told the UK’s PA Media news agency “we work really closely with Police Scotland, the Border Force and UK visas and immigration to make sure everyone arrives and departs in line with regulation.” Advertisement A Pakistani boxer was also reported to have failed to return home on schedule, according to regional media. Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network