Mexican influencer Cesar Gastélum said he was 'scared' before murder Primary Menu Sections US News Metro Long Island Politics World News Page Six Sports NFL MLB Olympics NBA NHL College Football College Basketball WNBA Post Sports+ Sports Betting Business Opinion Entertainment TV Movies Music Celebrities Awards Theater Shopping Lifestyle Weird But True Sex & Relationships Viral Trends Human Interest Parenting Fashion & Beauty Food & Drink Travel Health Wellness Fitness Health Care Medicine Men’s Health Women’s Health Mental Health Nutrition Real Estate Alexa Media Tech Science Space Environment Wildlife Archaeology Astrology Video Photos Pod Force One NY POSTcast Today’s Paper Covers Columnists Horoscopes Crosswords & Games Sports Odds Podcasts Careers Email Newsletters Official Store Home Delivery Tips Search Email New York Post Switch between CA and NY editions here. Got it Edition CA NY Open World News navigation US News US News Metro Long Island Politics World News US News Metro Long Island Politics World News Search Search trending now in World News Skip to main content Two supertankers hit in the Strait of Hormuz — as Iran... Cuckolded hubby jailed after using robot vacuum to record his... Nepal ‘miracle house’ stays standing as raging... French first lady Brigitte Macron’s daughter, 42, follows... Putin vows to support Iran and resist US sanctions after meeting... Sicko school worker arrested in massacre of over 50 hamsters by... Woman’s head ‘shaved by bartender’ over unpaid... 24-year-old woman set friend on fire for making misogynistic... World News Mexican influencer’s chilling last words before he was gunned down during livestream: ‘Those guys scare me’ By Chris Bradford Published Aug. 6, 2026, 9:22 a.m. ET See more of our coverage in your search results. Add The New York Post on Google Murdered Mexican influencer Cesar Gastélum chillingly uttered, “Those guys scare me” — just moments before being shot dead by a motorbike-riding assassin on a live-stream, according to reports. Gastélum, 24, was gunned down during a social media skit with two pals outside a KFC restaurant in Culiacán, Sinaloa, Mexico, on Tuesday night. The trio, dressed as food delivery workers, were standing by the restaurant’s drive-thru and Gastélum expressed fear after spotting a motorcycle nearby. 3 Cesar Gastélum was performing a social media stunt with two pals before he was shot dead. JamPress “The motorcycle, the motorcycle,” one of Gastélum’s pals said, according to the Mexican outlet El Heraldo de Mexico . “Those guys scare me,” Gastélum ominously replied. Minutes later, Gastélum was shot in the head at point-blank range. Explore More Two supertankers hit in the Strait of Hormuz — as Iran president extends olive branch Cuckolded hubby jailed after using robot vacuum to record his wife’s affair Nepal ‘miracle house’ stays standing as raging floodwaters destroy everything around it The two people on the bike fled the scene and Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum has vowed the killers will be brought to justice. “The actual perpetrators — and if applicable, the mastermind — must be arrested, and the reason behind this tragic homicide must be uncovered,” she said Wednesday. The authorities are investigating whether his killing was linked to cartel violence. 3 Gastélum posing in front of a car plastered in yellow no-entry stickers. @cesargastelum_57/Instagram Gastélum, who boasted more than 650,000 TikTok followers, described himself as a “belico,” a term that literally translates as “warlike” and is used as slang in cartel culture. Sinaloa, located in northwest Mexico, has been plagued by cartel violence. Culiacán has seen clashes involving factions of the Sinaloa Cartel. The cartel is “one of the world’s most powerful drug cartels and is one of the largest producers and traffickers of fentanyl and other illicit drugs to the United States,” the Trump Administration said last February, declaring it a foreign terrorist organization. Start your day with all you need to know Morning Report delivers the latest news, videos, photos and more. Thanks for signing up! Enter your email address Please provide a valid email. By clicking above you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Never miss a story. Check out more newsletters The criminal organization “has used violence to murder, kidnap, and intimidate civilians, government officials, and journalists,” the White House said. The Los Chapitos faction would leave a pizza or pizza box on a dead body, while members of the Los Mayos faction would leave behind a sombrero, according to reports. Gastélum was filmed wearing a white sombrero before being shot, and wearing hats could signify an allegiance to one cartel faction. Alejandro Fierro, who was live-streaming with Gastélum at the time, said his friend “never deserved this.” 3 Investigators at the crime scene in the Mexican city of Culiacan. REUTERS “I don’t understand the situation and I don’t think I ever will,” he wrote on his Instagram Stories in Spanish, describing the tragedy as the “worst day” of his life. “I don’t know what I’ll do with my life without you.” “My friend and I were just two young guys with a dream who weren’t hurting anyone,” Fierro said in another post. Gastélum was killed one year after influencer Valeria Marquez, 23, was gunned down in her Jalisco beauty salon. Drug lord Ramón Ángel Álvarez Ayala, a senior figure in the Jalisco New Generation Cartel, allegedly ordered her assassination because she and his son had broken up, according to Mexican authorities. With Post wires Filed under cartels deaths Influencers mexico shootings sinaloa cartel 8/6/26 Read Next South Korean police raid Starbucks HQ over controversial m... Trending Now in World News This story has been shared 6,036 times. 6,036 Two supertankers hit in the Strait of Hormuz — as Iran president extends olive branch This story has been shared 2,930 times. 2,930 Cuckolded hubby jailed after using robot vacuum to record his wife’s affair This story has been shared 2,155 times. 2,155 Nepal ‘miracle house’ stays standing as raging floodwaters destroy everything around it This story has been shared 2,066 times. 2,066 French first lady Brigitte Macron’s daughter, 42, follows in mom’s footsteps — and bags a beau half her age Listen Now Now on Page Six Ariana Grande breaks down in tears during final ‘Eternal Sunshine’ concert before break from spotlight ‘Earle Meets World’ LA premiere red carpet: Alix Earle, Ashtin Earle and more See All Video Adam Ottavino Talks Yankees Pitching + Pat Murphy On MLB-Best Brewers | The Show Ep. 216 Cesar Gastélum was performing a social media stunt with two pals before he was shot dead. JamPress Gastélum posing in front of a car plastered in yellow no-entry stickers. @cesargastelum_57/Instagram Investigators at the crime scene in the Mexican city of Culiacan. REUTERS You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image More Stories Page Six Warning letters sent to parents in Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s UK area over new school rules Decider Stream It Or Skip It: ‘Welcome To The Family: The Murder Of Dan Markel’ On Hulu, A True Crime Docuseries About The Contract Killing Of A Law Professor NYPost BofA exec killed by Times Square maniac was a new mom who had just returned from maternity leave Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Email YouTube TikTok Snapchat Sections & Features US News Metro World News Sports Sports Betting Business Opinion Entertainment Fashion & Beauty Shopping Lifestyle Real Estate Media Tech Science Health Travel Astrology Video Photos Alexa Covers Horoscopes Sports Odds Podcasts Crosswords & Games Columnists Classifieds Post Sports+ Subscribe Articles Manage Newsletters & Store Email Newsletters NY Post Official Store Home Delivery Subscribe Manage Subscription Delivery Help Help/Support About New York Post Editorial Standards New York Post Awards & Recognition Customer Service Apps Help Community Guidelines Contact Us Tips Newsroom Letters to the Editor Licensing & Reprints Careers Vulnerability Disclosure Program Apps iPhone App iPad App Android Phone Android Tablet Advertise Media Kit Contact © 2026 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved Terms of Use Subscription Terms Privacy Notice Sitemap Your California Privacy Rights Do Not Sell My Personal Information