Hundreds of thousands of people in Puerto Rico wake up with no running water as rationing begins: "It's brutal" - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War UFO Files World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War UFO Files World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News World Hundreds of thousands of people in Puerto Rico wake up with no running water as rationing begins: "It's brutal" By Lilia Luciano , Lilia Luciano Anchor and Correspondent, "CBS News 24/7" Lilia Luciano is an award-winning journalist and CBS News 24/7 anchor and correspondent based in New York City. Luciano is the recipient of multiple journalism awards, including a Walter Cronkite Award, a regional Edward R. Murrow Award and five regional Emmys. Read Full Bio Lilia Luciano , Lucia I Suarez Sang Lucia I Suarez Sang Associate Managing Editor Lucia Suarez Sang is an associate managing editor at CBSNews.com. Previously, Lucia was the director of digital content at FOX61 News in Connecticut and has previously written for outlets including FoxNews.com, Fox News Latino and the Rutland Herald. Read Full Bio Lucia I Suarez Sang Updated on: August 7, 2026 / 8:25 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Hundreds of thousands of people in Puerto Rico's capital and surrounding communities woke up without running water as a massive rationing measure took effect Friday. It comes amid a severe drought on top of shortages due to infrastructure issues on the island. "It's brutal," San Juan resident Gloriany Baba told CBS News in Spanish. "It's unbelievable to live through this today." Residents were seen filling up jugs and buckets with water ahead of the rationing, which affects more than 180,000 customer accounts — meaning households and businesses — in San Juan and six other municipalities. Customers were divided into two groups that will alternate not having water for at least 48 hours at a time. Government officials have not said when the rationing will end and have warned the outages could be extended to 72 hours at a time. Residents collect water from a tanker truck at a distribution point during a government-imposed water rationing amid a severe drought in San Juan, Puerto Rico. Ricardo ARDUENGO /AFP via Getty Images In San Juan, July was the driest month in more than 120 years and the second hottest on record. According to the U.S. Drought Monitor , about 36% of Puerto Rico is facing a severe drought, and another 32% is in a moderate drought. "It's not going to take one tropical system. It's going to take many tropical systems and the winter precipitation for us to get out of this drought crisis," said Ada Monzon, the chief meteorologist at local station WAPA-TV. The drought has put even more pressure on a water system already strained by decades of underinvestment, deferred maintenance and aging infrastructure. Puerto Rico's water authority says roughly 65% of the water it produces is lost or goes unbilled, much of it through leaks and aging pipes. The island's governor, Jenniffer González, has acknowledged years of neglect, but blamed the current problem on the weather. Communities in San Juan have documented at least 118 days in 2026 with repeated water outages before the rationing measures began. Service has been intermittent and has shut off for full days and multiple days at a time. Residents have also complained about very low pressure. Low-income Puerto Ricans are spending money on bottled water, and the elderly are relying on neighbors and family to carry water to them. A resident carries a bucket of water after collecting it from a natural spring during a mandatory water rationing imposed amid a severe drought in Trujillo Alto, Puerto Rico. Ricardo ARDUENGO /AFP via Getty Images Puerto Rico previously implemented rationing measures in 2020 and in 2015, when some 400,000 utility customers received water only every third day. The Associated Press contributed to this report. More from CBS News America's water systems are getting hacked amid security gaps, experts say Trump denies U.S. running low on some munitions, says vast resupplies being made Record-low Danube River levels threaten shutdown of Hungary's nuclear plant Trump announces $180 million to boost mining education Go deeper with The Free Press Inside Cuba’s Police State: From Ration Cards to Black Berets with Gelet Martínez Fragela Dispatch from Ceuta: Inside the 48-Hour Migration Crisis In: Puerto Rico © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Puerto Rico facing severe drought Puerto Rico faces severe drought as 180,000 households and businesses forced to ration water 02:15 Puerto Rico faces severe drought as 180,000 households and businesses forced to ration water (02:15) America's water systems are getting hacked amid security gaps, experts say Trump denies U.S. running low on some munitions, says vast resupplies being made Record-low Danube River levels threaten shutdown of Hungary's nuclear plant Inside Cuba’s Police State: From Ration Cards to Black Berets with Gelet Martínez Fragela Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue