Vandalism of Melbourne defence manufacturer being investigated as terrorist act by ‘far-left extremists’ | Australian federal police | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Police released CCTV footage of suspects vandalising defence manufacturer Lovitt Technologies and setting alight multiple vehicles on the company’s Melbourne property in July 2025. Photograph: AFP View image in fullscreen Police released CCTV footage of suspects vandalising defence manufacturer Lovitt Technologies and setting alight multiple vehicles on the company’s Melbourne property in July 2025. Photograph: AFP Australian federal police Vandalism of Melbourne defence manufacturer being investigated as terrorist act by ‘far-left extremists’ Federal police say those who vandalised a defence manufacturer and torched nearby cars could face life imprisonment Follow our Australia news live blog for latest updates Get our breaking news email , free app or daily news podcast Kat Wong Tue 4 Aug 2026 11.00 EDT Last modified on Tue 4 Aug 2026 17.48 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Anti-weapons protesters who vandalised a defence manufacturer and set nearby vehicles alight could face life imprisonment after police said the incident was being investigated as an act of terrorism by “far-left extremists”. The Australian federal police, their Victorian counterparts and spy agency Asio are examining whether the incident at Melbourne-based Lovitt Technologies on 5 July 2025 was potentially perpetrated by “far-left extremists, motivated by anarchist and revolutionary ideologies”, a joint statement said. High-ranking NSW police officer apologises for failing to alert Jewish groups to neo-Nazi Sydney protest Read more The alleged perpetrators were being investigated in relation to the offences of engaging in a terrorist act under the federal criminal code and “other acts done in preparation for, or planning, terrorist acts”, the AFP said. If convicted, they could face life imprisonment, AFP Det Supt Anthony Hall warned. “We clearly have some information about these alleged offenders and are focused on identifying who they are,” he said. “The AFP, together with our partners, will not tolerate acts of terror motivated by extremist ideologies aiming to cause fear and anguish in our community. Sign up for the Breaking News Australia email “At any time, we could be knocking on the door of the accused group. We know this is making some in the group anxious – and it should, because we are determined to bring them before the courts.” Wearing black hoodies, backpacks and gloves, members of the group claimed responsibility for the attack in a video posted online. Their video advises viewers on how to create an incendiary device, similar to the one suspected of creating a fire that damaged three vehicles at Lovitt Technologies, and voices their opposition to the government. In a video seen by Guardian Australia, a person who claims to represent the “anonymous cell” responsible outlines support for Palestine and claims Lovitt Technologies was targeted because it supported the global F-35 joint strike fighter program, whose jets are used by the Israeli military. 0:49 Police CCTV shows cars set on fire and graffitied in Melbourne – video “This was not an accident nor thoughtless vandalism,” the person, whose voice was digitally altered, said. “If you continue making weapons components of any kind, there will be consequences.” Lovitt Technologies supplies parts to the joint strike fighter program, whose global supply chain has been subject to fierce political debate in Australia and a major legal challenge in the UK. But all companies and their employees had a right to go about their business safely, Victoria police’s Acting Supt Anthony Wheatfill said. “That anyone would use such violent and dangerous methods to express a political or social viewpoint is unacceptable,” he said. After the incident, the alleged offenders left using a back fence and rode ebikes south-west along Plenty River. Community members with knowledge of the offenders or dashcam footage have been urged to come forward. Explore more on these topics Australian federal police Protest Arms trade Melbourne Victoria Crime - Australia news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Last Islamic State-linked Australian woman from Syrian camp to return despite previous ban 25 Jun 2026 What Ben Carroll’s cabinet cuts say about his ‘new direction’ for Victoria 18h ago Ralph Carr, entertainment industry and AFL figure, revealed as Melbourne businessman guilty of raping former staffer 2d ago AI models capable of devastating attacks on governments and business months away, rare Five Eyes statement warns 22 Jun 2026 One Nation names eight Victorian election candidates as Hanson bars ABC and Guardian from press conferences 2d ago More of the Christchurch shooter’s online comments have been uncovered, New Zealand researchers say. Does it change the picture? 12 Jun 2026 Voluntary assisted dying care navigators help Victoria’s end-of-life patients chart a course for choice 5d ago … … comments Labor scraps plan to make spy agency’s 9/11-era questioning powers permanent 10 Jun 2026 Australian woman linked to Islamic State lived with teenage slave who was repeatedly raped, court told 4 Jun 2026 Victorian cults inquiry accidentally shares email address of anonymous survivors with group members 7d ago Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)