Eve Muirhead: Winter Olympic gold medal-winning curler revokes retirement - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Winter Sports Olympic Sports Olympic champion curler Muirhead revokes retirement Figure caption, Eve Muirhead revokes retirement By Richard Winton BBC Sport Scotland Published 8 hours ago Winter Olympic gold medallist Eve Muirhead has reversed her retirement, saying being Team GB's chef de mission at this year's Games has inspired her to return to curling after four years away. The 36-year-old will team up with two-time Olympic silver medallist Bobby Lammie in mixed doubles this season - the pair having won the world title in 2022 - with a view to ultimately reaching the Alpes 2030 Games. Four-time Olympian Muirhead stepped away from competing after winning gold in Beijing four years ago, and subsequently spoke about the mental health challenges she experienced towards the end of a 15-year struggle to win gold. The Scot was Team GB's chef de mission at the Milan-Cortina Games in February and says that "brought back emotions that I had not felt for a long time". Muirhead explained that being away from curling gave her the chance to try new things, take on new physical challenges, and enjoy the sport "without the pressure I had placed on myself for so many years". Olympic champion Muirhead retires from curling Published 11 August 2022 How Team GB is leading the way in curling's arms race Published 11 February How does curling work? Published 4 February "But the competitive side of me never disappeared," she added. "The more time I spent around elite sport and curling, the more I began to wonder whether I still had something to give on the ice. "I know how demanding the road to an Olympics is, but I am returning from a very different place. I feel refreshed, physically strong and excited by the challenge. I would not be coming back unless I believed I could perform at that level again." Muirhead's gold medal-winning team-mate Vicky Drummond is also returning to the sport to rival her - and a third member of that rink, Jen Dodds - in the GB Curling mixed doubles programme. Drummond, 32, says being part of the BBC Sport team in Cortina in February rekindled her passion for competing, and that she wants to show her young daughter Sophie that "becoming a mum doesn't mean your ambitions have to end". "More than anything, I want my return to mean something beyond the ice," said the intensive care nurse, who will partner Euan Kyle. "I want Sophie to grow up knowing that it's never too late to chase something that excites you. If she grows up believing that anything is possible because she watched me try, then this journey will already have been worth it. "I have no idea where this road will lead, but I'm excited to find out." Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Former team-mates Vicky Drummond and Eve Muirhead will be rivals in mixed doubles Analysis: Friends become rivals in fascinating twist Spending time with Muirhead and Drummond in Cortina earlier this year, it was clear how much both revelled being back in the elite sport environment and how much curling meant to them. In Muirhead's case, there was always going to be a void after the all-consuming job of chef de mission ended abruptedly when the Games did. And her near-zealous completion of Hyrox events around the world - and at a predictably elite level - spoke to the competitive fire still inside her. At 36, she is still young and will return revived - and with the cachet of having not just won Olympic gold - but dealt with the stresses and strains of that journey. And she will do so with arguably the best sweeper in the sport alongside her. Drummond is even younger and returns with a different motivation. That is not to say she'll not be just as competitive as her close friend. The battle between them, and Dodds, to be part of GB's pre-eminent pairing as we move towards the next Winter Olympics will be fascinating. Related topics Curling Winter Sports Shorts Previous Next 1:11 The incredible story of Yan Diomande. 00:01:11, play video The incredible story of Yan Diomande 1:06 'Athletes should speak up if they're struggling' 00:01:06, play video 'Athletes should speak up if they're struggling' 0:57 Curran and Ahmed still in England Test plans - North. 00:00:57, play video Curran and Ahmed still in England Test plans - North 0:32 Thousands welcome World Cup hero Vozinha in Chile. 00:00:32, play video Thousands welcome World Cup hero Vozinha in Chile 1:19 Afghan women's team can play again after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team can play again after ban 0:41 Rush emotional at exhibition honouring career. 00:00:41, play video Rush emotional at exhibition honouring career 1:20 Memes, burgers and Danny Dyer - British runners come clean. 00:01:20, play video Memes, burgers and Danny Dyer - British runners come clean 0:39 How Smalling went from A-levels to Premier League. 00:00:39, play video How Smalling went from A-levels to Premier League 1:22 Be your 'biggest cheerleader' - positive advice from Amy Hunt. 00:01:22, play video Be your 'biggest cheerleader' - positive advice from Amy Hunt 0:25 'I've been really impressed with him' - Arteta on O'Neill. 00:00:25, play video 'I've been really impressed with him' - Arteta on O'Neill 0:46 Chelsea's 16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli. 00:00:46, play video Chelsea's 16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli 1:15 How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? 00:01:15, play video How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? Top stories Live . FA withdraw support for Infantino as Uefa say World Cup boycott may still go ahead 13537 viewing 14k viewing Live . European qualifiers: Build-up as Yokota makes Rangers debut in Poland, Motherwell visit HJK 2033 viewing 2k viewing Barcelona? Real Madrid? Man City's Rodri has a decision to make Published 4 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC 'I said maybeeee...' Aviation is being reimagined for the changing planet A new high-stakes thriller crackling with danger Did Fenners score the first ever goal at the new Wembley Stadium? Elsewhere in Scottish sport How Scotland reached the World Cup - told by those who made it happen Scotland men's internationals to be shown live on BBC How Team GB is leading the way in curling's arms race How McTominay became a Napoli icon after Man Utd exit Why is it so special to be part of Team Scotland? Elsewhere in Sport Players who turned World Cup heroics into big transfers A wanted man - but would Liverpool's Gakpo be a good fit at Spurs? Weekly sports quiz: Beckham at the Commonwealth Games? Newcastle appoint Jaissle - what should fans expect? Rockets march on after easy win against Phoenix. Video Rockets march on after easy win against Phoenix Lines to be first British woman in America's Cup team for 90 years How Buttler became T20 cricket's run-scoring GOAT Chelsea lose friendly as Juventus score stunning winner. Video Chelsea lose friendly as Juventus score stunning winner Why Liverpool are ready to make Barcola third £100m signing No WSL experience but who is new Man Utd boss Olid? Why £1m-a-season deal will be hard for Pollock and Hearn to find A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season Why we are still waiting for the 'Newey effect' - F1 Q&A The summer that changed Welsh football The ex-sandwich maker who cycles to Champions League games How Mumbai Indians takeover has affected MI London & Surrey Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.