Melinda French Gates on perimenopause: "It took me 3 doctors to really diagnose what I was going through" - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Cyberattacks World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds Healthful with Norah O'Donnell | Listen Now CBS News Podcasts Watch CBS News Healthful with Norah O'Donnell Melinda French Gates on perimenopause: "It took me 3 doctors to really diagnose what I was going through" Updated on: July 22, 2026 / 7:14 AM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Despite access to the best healthcare, Melinda French Gates said it took three doctors to diagnose and treat her when she started perimenopause in her early 40s. French Gates opened up about her menopausal experience on "Healthful," Norah O'Donnell's new podcast , which launched on Wednesday. She said she "kind of couldn't believe it" when she started perimenopause in her early 40s, a few years after she had her youngest child. She knew the signs to look out for because of the stories her older friends would tell her on their weekly walks, she said. "But it was kind of unbelievable to me that, even in this, you know, unbelievably privileged situation I'm in, where I feel like I can get some of the best healthcare, it took me three doctors to really diagnose what I was going through and to get the right treatments for where I was." French Gates continued: "It wasn't because anybody was doing the wrong thing. It's because of what I now know, which is, only a third — one-third — of OB-GYNs in this country are trained in menopause." A 2022 survey found that 31.3% of OB-GYN residents reported having a menopause curriculum in their residency program. Meanwhile, a study commissioned by women's health app Mira outlined the challenges that menopausal women face: Two in five respondents said their symptoms affect their work, and one in 10 said they have left or are contemplating leaving their jobs because of menopause symptoms. French Gates talked more about menopause and her philanthropic focus on women's health in the debut episode of "Healthful," airing Wednesday. Watch on the Healthful YouTube channel , or listen wherever you get your podcasts. More from CBS News What happens if you ignore medical bills? Can creditors freeze your savings account over an unpaid debt? White House declassifies info on secret FBI probe into Trump's firing of Comey Disney partners with TikTok to offer creator content on its app Go deeper with The Free Press This Week in American History: The French Connection Confessions of a Detransitioner In: Menopause Melinda French Gates © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Melinda French Gates on Women's Health Melinda French Gates: It Took Three Doctors to Diagnose My Perimenopause 44:52 Melinda French Gates: It Took Three Doctors to Diagnose My Perimenopause (44:52) What happens if you ignore medical bills? Can creditors freeze your savings account over an unpaid debt? White House declassifies info on secret FBI probe into Trump's firing of Comey This Week in American History: The French Connection Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue