Some Gen Zers swap their smartphones for "dumb" phones to curb social media habits - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Michigan Senate Primary World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds MoneyWatch | Managing Your Money CBS News Price Tracker Watch CBS News MoneyWatch Some Gen Zers swap their smartphones for "dumb" phones to curb social media habits By Maya Blackstone Updated on: August 5, 2026 / 4:04 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Kendall Schrohe remembers the moment she swapped her smartphone for a flip phone. "For me, like the second that my iPhone was gone, it was just like heaven on earth," the 23-year-old Washington, D.C., resident told CBS News. Schrohe is among the growing number of young people who are ditching their smartphones in favor of stripped-down "dumb phones" in an effort to unplug from social media amid concerns about the platforms' impact on mental health . Some also feel nostalgic for an era they never knew before the advent of mobile devices. According to Pew Research , roughly half of U.S. adults in 2025 visited social media platforms like YouTube and Facebook at least once a day. Research from the American Psychological Association showed even higher usage among young people, with the average U.S. teen spending nearly five hours a day on social media, according to the group. What is a dumb phone? So-called dumb phones are a broad category. At one end are old-school flip phones, popular in the late 1990s and early 2000s, that handle calls and texts but little else. Then there are devices that use flip-phone hardware but integrate messaging and other apps. Another approach involves using smartphone technology that blocks social media. Schrohe got her flip phone from Dumb.co, a startup that sells devices loaded with practical tools like Uber, maps and Spotify, but no social media. Dumb.co said it has more than 5,000 active users and that their typical customer is a 24-year-old woman. Other dumb phone providers include The Light Phone company, while technology companies such as Brick sell companion devices that connect to smartphones to block social media. Although she's happy she made the switch, Schrohe acknowledged social media is a hard habit to break. "Young people, because we grew up on these platforms, it's very hard for us to imagine a life where we're not addicted to it because that has been the norm our entire existence," she said. A form of substance abuse? In March, a jury ruled that Meta and YouTube were liable for creating products that led to harmful and addictive behavior by young users, a landmark decision that could set a legal precedent for similar allegations brought against social media companies. Dr. Jason Nagata , a pediatrician and professor at the University of California, San Francisco, studies social media's effects on young people. His research found that social media usage can mirror patterns seen in substance abuse. "In teenagers and then even in adults, the sort of features of the design can lead to symptoms similar to substance-related addictions, which can include impaired control, withdrawal, tolerance and relapse," Nagata said. Nagata also said the research suggests a genuine payoff for people who commit to reducing their social media usage or staying off the platforms altogether. "In the long term, many do notice improvement in sleep, better concentration, less overall stress." Schrohe said she spent years trying to wean herself off social media and reduce the amount of time she spent texting and scrolling on her smartphone. She finally succeeded with the help of a program called "Month Offline," which partners with Dumb.co to challenge participants to ditch their smartphones for 30 days and engage in communal screen-free activities instead. "I needed that extreme measure, like to physically not be able to access social media in order to realize, like, that I actually preferred life without it," Schrohe told CBS News. "The concept of social media, it's not like inherently evil. It's the way it's designed to keep you on it. That's like the negative part." She added, "If you feel like you want to change your relationship with technology, like, you can. It really opens up your mind." Edited by Alain Sherter More from CBS News More adult children live at home now than during the pandemic Behind closed doors, Trump, White House aides hope Rep. Max Miller exits race U.S. has used nearly all its stockpile of long-range missiles, sources say Trump raises concerns in call with Rep. Max Miller amid abuse allegations Go deeper with The Free Press WATCH: The Gen-Z Debate with Harry Sisson and Isabel Brown Meta’s Been Found Guilty of Exploiting My Generation. So Why Don’t I Feel Better? In: Smartphone © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Some in Gen Z ditching smartphones Some in Gen Z ditching smartphones 01:46 Some in Gen Z ditching smartphones (01:46) More adult children live at home now than during the pandemic Behind closed doors, Trump, White House aides hope Rep. Max Miller exits race U.S. has used nearly all its stockpile of long-range missiles, sources say WATCH: The Gen-Z Debate with Harry Sisson and Isabel Brown Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue