Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption Image source, EPA/Shutterstock Image caption, Liverpool Lime Street - a major travel hub in the North West - was among those stations hit by the disruption on Thursday By Lynette Horsburgh North West Published 6 August 2026, 20:13 BST Updated 17 minutes ago Thousands of rail passengers have described "nightmare" journeys, after being hit by delays and cancellations following a power failure at a signalling centre that caused major disruption across northern England. A 90-second power outage occurred in the area covering Network Rail's Manchester Rail Operating Centre just before 14:00 BST on Thursday. The BBC understands there was then a delay to back-up systems kicking in, meaning affected trains had to stop while signalling was down. Network Rail said "engineers are making good progress fixing the signalling issues" but warned of continuing disruption on Friday. At least eight rail operators remain affected on Thursday evening. "We've got to really understand what's gone wrong here, because clearly something has and we've got to make sure we investigate that thoroughly to understand why things haven't restored as we would have expected," said Chris Wright, Route Director NW at Network Rail. Manchester Rail Operating Centre was opened in July 2014 and houses all the controls to safely operate the railway in the region, including signalling. According to Network Rail, its operational control boundary spans from Crewe in the south to Carlisle in the north, and from Todmorden in the east to the Welsh border in the west. The initial power outage on Thursday afternoon was part of a wider power supply outage in the Ardwick area, but the BBC understands there was a delay to the back-up supply kicking in - which exacerbated the problem. 'Ripple effect' SP Electricity NW released a statement, detailing a power outage which had affected "around 5,000 customers in the Manchester area at 1:40pm today - all power was fully restored within 90 seconds," the company said. BBC transport correspondent Katy Austin said the disruption caused a " ripple effect ", with some trains outside the area directly affected - including the Midlands - impacted. Trains travelling north from stations including Birmingham New Street and London Euston were subject to delays and cancellations, and National Rail initially said the Midlands was also affected by the power failure. To add to the chaos, Network Rail said "a wartime bomb" near the railway track between Tamworth and Burton-on-Trent had blocked all lines between the two stations for a time on Thursday. The incident and the disruption has since ended, Network Rail said. Image source, Sarah Nelson Image caption, Sarah Nelson said she faced a "nightmare" five-hour round trip to return home to Blackpool Sarah Nelson, who was unable to get to work in Manchester, was one of a number of affected passengers who told BBC Your Voice about their disruption. She said she faced a "nightmare" five-hour round trip to just get back to her home in Blackpool. The remedial massage therapist's train was stuck at Horwich Parkway for more than 90 minutes. Chris, a technology consultant, travelled to Manchester from Scotland on Wednesday on business. He said he would likely book a hotel for the night, despite the expense and inconvenience, describing the delay as "costly, inconvenient... frustrating". "We're still being told there is no power to any of the trains, no electricity - and they don't expect anything to run today until the end of the day," he said. "I will have to get a hotel here and see if I can get home tomorrow." A couple returning from a trip to Gibraltar were planning to get a train home to Clitheroe, Lancashire, after landing at Manchester Airport. But Matt and Sarah had to book an Uber to take them home instead, adding it was "costing a fortune". Stacey was among passengers who were evacuated from a train that stopped prematurely in Manchester when signalling failed. The 38-year-old office worker, who was travelling from Deansgate to Leyland, Lancashire, paid £60 for a taxi home. "The train stopped when the signals went," she said, praising the "phenomenal" staff for their "calm and professional" efforts organising a controlled evacuation from the viaduct. 'Cannot happen again' Transport Secretary Heidi Alexander posted on X , external she was "sorry to hear passengers in the North West are affected by a power outage, with trains cancelled or delayed". "The focus rightly needs to be on getting trains back up and running as soon as possible," said Bev Craig, the new mayor of Greater Manchester Craig said she would be asking both Network Rail and the train operating companies for an investigation into the cause and their response. "We need assurances that this cannot and will not happen again." Some train operators were continuing to advise against travel on Thursday night, with Northern Rail advising do not travel until 10:00 on Friday 7 August. National Rail have advised passengers hoping to travel on Friday to continue to check online for information on any further disruption , external : "As soon as we have information, we will keep you updated." Network Rail said services may continue to be disrupted "because many trains and crews are not where they would normally be after this unexpected incident". Image source, EPA/Shutterstock Image caption, Rail passengers have been told disruption is expected for the rest of Thursday Passengers whose journeys have been affected as a result of the disruption may be entitled to some money back. National Rail said different train companies have different schemes, but added that "they all offer compensation" , external . The amount may depend on the type of ticket and the length of delay. Each train company has its own compensation threshold. "Claims can be made online, or by post, using a form that you can download from a train company website or get from a staffed station," according to National Rail. Claims could also be made via the nationwide scheme Delay Repay. Get in touch Tell us which stories we should cover in Greater Manchester Contact form Contact form Listen to the best of BBC Radio Manchester on Sounds and follow BBC Manchester on Facebook , external , X , external , and Instagram , external . You can also send story ideas via Whatsapp to 0808 100 2230. Related topics National Rail Manchester Liverpool Clitheroe Blackpool Leyland More on this story Your Voice – on your local BBC Published 17 February Related internet links National Rail The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens 1:03 Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show. 00:01:03, play video Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show 0:58 Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:58 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns. 00:00:58, play video Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:19 England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations. 00:01:19, play video England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya Top stories Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption Published 17 minutes ago Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases Published 8 hours ago Uefa says boycott may still go ahead as FA withdraws Infantino support Published 5 hours ago More to explore The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Steve the featherless parrot gets his colour back Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives Why aren't more women getting into padel? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 Arrests in Thetford as disorder continues for third night 2 Artificial Intelligence used to design brand new viruses 3 Met Police boss admits mistake over plagiarism row 4 Amanda Knox defends Fringe comedy show after claims it will 'trivialise violence' 5 South Korea space agency shares Moon images after SpaceX rocket debris crash 6 Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order 7 Former duke chased by alleged stalker, court hears 8 Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption 9 Boxer charged with killing aid worker in Athens after his wife gave police 'key' details 10 Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.