China pounces after hack on Apple's Indian supplier Tata Electronics Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech How the 'Baby iPhone' and an Apple supplier leak explain China's recent supply chain moves Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 10:35 AM EDT Updated 6 Hours Ago Eunice Yoon @onlyyoontv WATCH LIVE Key Points China is trying to take advantage of a recent hack on Apple's Indian supplier, Tata Electronics. The Communist Party's Global Times newspaper warned this month of "systemic weaknesses in 'Made in India.'" But even in China's biggest electronics marketplace, Huaqiangbei, technicians can't make exact copies of Apple's latest phones. In this article AAPL Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 2:05 02:05 China's swagger after India's iPhone 18 leak Tech The recent cyber breach at Indian Apple supplier Tata Electronics has become propaganda gold for Beijing, as leaders vie to keep international companies locked into China 's supply chains. "Something like this would never happen in China," said Ma Shouhua, an iPhone repair specialist in China's biggest electronics marketplace, Huaqiangbei. Ma recently posted a viral video outlining the purported specifications of Apple's soon-to-be-released iPhone 18 Pro models that were part of the materials leaked after the breach. Tata Electronics confirmed a "cybersecurity incident" to CNBC but said it "had no impact on our operations across businesses." The company did not say if any materials or data were stolen. Reuters reported in June that hacking group World Leaks claimed responsibility for the attack and that stolen data included parts lists, suppliers and photos of Apple's unreleased iPhone 18 Pro. Apple declined to comment on the leak or its supply chain plans. With geopolitical tensions rising, dependence on China has become riskier for U.S. companies, leading Apple and other companies to make greater efforts to diversify. Last year, Apple produced its top devices — the iPhone 17 series — in India for the first time. The competition with India for iPhone production and other manufacturing has alarmed Chinese authorities. Read more CNBC tech news SpaceX revenue jumps 92% and AI costs soar in first earnings report since IPO NJ files antitrust suit against Amazon, alleging it unlawfully wielded power over delivery contractors Palantir stock skyrockets on 'otherworldly' commercial revenue — here's what's driving the demand How the 'Baby iPhone' and an Apple supplier leak explain China's recent supply chain moves The Communist Party's Global Times newspaper warned in July of "systemic weaknesses in 'Made in India'" and argued that replicating supply chains in other countries is "no easy task." China is competing with lower-cost countries to retain all supply chains for jobs and leverage over its trading partners. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce wrote in a May report with Rhodium Group that China is "using regulations and economic coercion" to reinforce its control over critical supply chains. "It has tightened controls on critical minerals and processing technologies, extended restrictions to downstream products through extraterritorial rules, and introduced new legal instruments that raise the cost for firms and governments seeking to diversify away from China," the report stated. 'Baby iPhone' copycats The Tata Electronics leak might not be serious enough to change Apple's course on its supply chain, and appears to be less of a risk than originally feared. In Shenzhen-based Huaqiangbei, where old iPhones are bought and sold, the technicians are famous for their ability to refurbish, repair and rebuild devices. On a recent visit, CNBC spoke to several technicians who insisted that recreating an iPhone 18 Pro is almost impossible despite widespread discussion on Chinese social media to the contrary. "You can't really make anything from those drawings. At most, you could make phone cases," seller Guo Youliang said. Though highly skilled, the technicians in Huaqiangbei said that they cannot get key parts of an iPhone — mainly the chips or the software. "They might look like an iPhone, but the insides are different," iPhone repair specialist Wang Shun said while fixing a model at his stall in the market. One example is the $29 "17 Pro Mini." Also referred to as the "Baby iPhone," the copycat resembles an iPhone 17 Pro down to its exclusive cosmic orange color. Yet it is powered by Android. Apple stopped producing mini-sized versions after the iPhone 13 Mini. The iPhone 18 Pro models are widely expected to be released this September. watch now VIDEO 2:04 02:04 Apple’s worst day since the pandemic puts its premium valuation under pressure Power Lunch Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by