Michael Johnson says athletes from bankrupt Grand Slam Track have now been paid - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Athletics Results Calendar Athletes from GST have now been paid - Johnson Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Johnson founded Grand Slam Track in 2024 Published 8 hours ago Four-time Olympic champion Michael Johnson has spoken publicly for the first time since Grand Slam Track went bankrupt, and has clarified details of payments to himself and competing athletes. Contracted runners were promised lucrative prize money and salaries in the competition's inaugural season last year, but the final event in Los Angeles was cancelled and organisers voluntarily filed for bankruptcy in the US in December 2025. Several high-profile athletes were owed payments over £100,000, including British former world 1500m champion Josh Kerr and 2024 Olympic 400m silver medallist Matthew Hudson-Smith. In an interview with the Telegraph , external published on Saturday, Johnson said he has now "got the athletes paid", after a "catastrophic capital issue" was caused by investors pulling out. The Association of Athletics Managers, which represents a number of competitors, said in January that GST had debts of more than $30m (£22.5m). In March 2026, a legal filing by GST's creditors accused Johnson of "secretly" paying himself $500,000 (£375,000) days before the season collapsed, a claim a GST representative said at the time was "unfounded and false". "I'm happy to clear it up, because it's the most hurtful thing and the exact opposite of what was reported," Johnson told The Telegraph. "Our credit card was full at Grand Slam Track, because we were facing significant cash-flow issues. "We had 96 athletes, plus companions, whom we needed to fly to Miami and Philadelphia. We had 170 people to house in hotels in both cities, and the credit card had no room left. "I instructed our travel team to put it on my credit card, and I would be reimbursed for it. So, what I received was reimbursement. "I also loaned the company $2m to make sure we took care of the athletes. I decided to forgo my own salary." Johnson said in March he would repay the $500,000 GST. "I definitely had nights where I didn't sleep, where I would be awake thinking: 'This is on me. This headline just came out - do the athletes believe that?'," Johnson said. "Those things weighed on me very heavily, and on my family as well. I was asking myself: 'Are you stupid? Why did you do this? This is not what you need.' "That was the most difficult part of this. Questioning my motivation for doing this, questioning my integrity, questioning my character." Johnson has been a pundit and commentator for the BBC since 2001 but has not worked for the broadcaster since the Paris 2024 Olympics as he focused his attention on GST. Related topics Athletics Shorts Previous Next 0:20 'I love Colombia!' - Infantino on South American support. 00:00:20, play video 'I love Colombia!' - Infantino on South American support 0:45 People were crying - Nunes on Guardiola exit. 00:00:45, play video People were crying - Nunes on Guardiola exit 0:55 How Uefa's boycott could impact women's football. 00:00:55, play video How Uefa's boycott could impact women's football 0:18 Infantino questioned by journalist in Colombia. 00:00:18, play video Infantino questioned by journalist in Colombia Top stories Tielemans cameo against PSG hints at Man Utd future Published 2 hours ago Garcia hopes long-term friend Alonso's Chelsea finish second to Liverpool Published 4 hours ago Athletes from GST have now been paid - Johnson Published 8 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC With great power comes great responsibility The rise and fall of a transatlantic cocaine empire Chris Packham explores four billion years of evolution Liza lands a major film job but her past could derail everything Elsewhere in Sport Life as a Wag in the transfer window Tielemans cameo against PSG hints at Man Utd future 'What a throw!' - Southern Brave's two stunning run outs. Video 'What a throw!' - Southern Brave's two stunning run outs Why can't the Premier League attract the world's best players? Inside Newcastle 2.0 - how the project is changing Politicians, private jets and power - the life of a Fifa president A secret invite and other 'pinch-me' moments before Leicester woke up 39 moves across five countries - football's ultimate journeyman Who will leave Chelsea? How Blues could cut 41-man squad Why Real are happy to pay £120m for raw genius of Diomande Weekly sports quiz: Beckham at the Commonwealth Games? Lines to be first British woman in America's Cup team for 90 years Why Liverpool are ready to make Barcola third £100m signing Why £1m-a-season deal will be hard for Pollock and Hearn to find A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.