Russia reportedly prepared sabotage in Poland, Lithuania and Germany using disguised explosives | Ukrainska Pravda Укр Рос Eng Support Us Укр Рос Eng Sections News Stories Opinions Interview Podcasts Special Projects Archive Projects of "Ukrainian Pravda" Ukrainska Pravda (UKR) Ekonomichna Pravda (UKR) Life (UKR) Sport (UKR) European Pravda (ENG) Blogs Istorychna Pravda (ENG) Tabloid Mezha (ENG) Defence (ENG) Topics ATACMS Russia-Ukraine war Special projects Ukrainian military should not have to ask for help: the story of the Liberty Ukraine charity Life under constant stress: rebuilding a sense of safety for little Ukrainians Увійти або зареєструватися Увійти з Google або Email Пароль Забули пароль? Увійти Швидкий вхід, якщо ви вже авторизовані на УП/ЕП Ще не маєте підписки? Долучайтеся до клубу УП! News Stories Opinions Interview Podcasts Special Projects Archive Russia reportedly prepared sabotage in Poland, Lithuania and Germany using disguised explosives Mariya Yemets — 2 October 2025, 09:29 Stock photo: Getty Images Посилання скопійовано Add UP as preferred source in Google Poland believes Russian intelligence services planned a series of sabotage attacks using drones and disguised explosives in the country, as well as in neighbouring Lithuania and Germany. Source : Gazeta Wyborcza , cited by European Pravda Details : According to informed sources linked to the prosecutor's office and the Internal Security Agency, investigators uncovered evidence during the probe into detained agent Władysław G., who is believed to have acted on behalf of Russia's Main Intelligence Directorate (GRU). Advertisement: Investigators say his handlers instructed him to obtain a spade, dig up certain objects at a local cemetery – tin cans branded as ordinary canned sweetcorn – and deposit them at a designated location near Łódź. "Our assessment is that Russian military intelligence, the GRU, was preparing terrorist attacks using drones and tinned cans that contained powerful explosives instead of corn," sources said. Further findings suggest that such operations were being prepared not only in Poland but also likely in Lithuania and Germany. Similar "sweetcorn tins" were discovered at a cemetery in Lithuania. The suspect is also believed to have transported drone components and SIM cards between Lithuania, Poland and Germany. If the charges are confirmed, Władysław G. faces a potential life sentence. The prosecution expects to conclude its investigation by the end of the year. Background : Earlier this week, German Chancellor Friedrich Merz said the country "no longer lives in peace", even if it's not at war in the traditional sense. Support Ukrainska Pravda on Patreon ! Poland Russia Germany infiltrators Advertisement: Top news of today All news Poland Polish PM speaks with NATO chief about possible Russian preparations for provocations against NATO states Polish PM: Russia is preparing for escalation, next 7-8 months will be critical Poland's foreign minister calls for faster defence preparations, warns against trusting Russia's assurances Latest news Advertisement: Advertisement: © 2000-2026, Ukrainska Pravda, LLC "UP Media Plus" . All rights reserved. Advertising on the site Events Rules for using UP materials AI policy Gender policy Principles and Rules of UP Work How to Write for UP Internship Promocodes The use of site materials is allowed only with a reference (for online publications — a hyperlink) to "Ukrainska Pravda" no lower than the third paragraph. Any copying, publication, reprinting, or further distribution of information containing a reference to " Interfax-Ukraine " is strictly prohibited. Any copying, reprinting, or reproduction of photographic works and/or audiovisual works owned by Getty Images is strictly prohibited. Materials marked as PROMOTED are advertisements and are published as advertising. The editorial board may not share the views promoted in them. Materials marked as SPECIAL PROJECT and WITH SUPPORT are also advertisements, but the editorial team participates in preparing this content and shares the views expressed in these materials. The editorial board is not responsible for the facts and value judgments published in advertising materials. According to Ukrainian law, the advertiser is responsible for the content of the advertisements. Project founder: Georgiy Gongadze, Editor-in-chief: Sevgil Musaeva , Founding editor: Olena Prytula , Editorial e-mail: [email protected] Registered online media entity; media identifier — R40-02280. Address: 01032, Kyiv, Zhylianska St., 48, 50A. Phone: +380 95 641 22 07