China is gaining ground in AI. The U.S. still has a major advantage Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Skip the noise. Get the download . The Tech Download China is gaining ground in AI. But the U.S. still has a major advantage Published Fri, Aug 7 2026 7:00 AM EDT Updated Fri, Aug 7 2026 7:19 AM EDT Kai Nicol-Schwarz @in/kains WATCH LIVE Key Points Earlier this week, Clément Delangue, the CEO of startup Hugging Face told CNBC China was winning the AI race. The country's AI firms are closing the performance gap with U.S. frontier labs and Chinese models are seeing rising adoption globally. But compute constraints are hamstringing progress and the U.S. still has big advantages, experts said. In this article 94345.T-JP PLTR META INTC Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT This report is from this week's The Tech Download newsletter. Like what you see? You can subscribe here. Earlier this week, Clément Delangue, the CEO of startup Hugging Face — which was recently on the receiving end of a rogue cyber attack by OpenAI's models — made the somewhat controversial claim that China was winning the AI race. "[China is] clearly dominating on open models right now, and I wouldn't be surprised if they start dominating at the frontier either by the end of this year or next year at the rate of progress," the Hugging Face CEO told CNBC earlier this week. Despite being hamstrung by access to cutting edge AI compute — an area in which the U.S. dominates and has looked to block China from getting access to — Chinese AI models are increasingly closing the performance gap with U.S. frontier systems. Beijing-based Moonshot's Kimi K3, released in July, edged ever closer to top models from Anthropic and OpenAI in benchmarking, even surpassing them in some areas. There's been growing adoption of Chinese AI models among Western companies as capability has shot up. And there are other areas in AI which China is also considered to be leading in. The world's most capable open models – which can be downloaded, modified and self-hosted – are all Chinese, and many experts consider the country to be ahead in robotics. So is the U.S. losing the AI arms race? U.S. and Chinese companies have come to dominate the global artificial intelligence race. Imen Ben Youssef | Afp | Getty Images China's advantages While lagging behind the frontier, China's models have emerged as cheaper and highly capable alternatives to U.S. options. With most AI use not requiring frontier model capabilities, adoption has risen on American shores and reportedly in developing economies in Africa. "Based on current trends it seems more likely than not that Chinese AI will become the default for developing countries," Daniel Remler, senior fellow, technology and national security program at think tank the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), told CNBC. That could have far-reaching consequences. "If Chinese AI technology becomes the default for developing countries, those countries may be more likely to align themselves politically with Beijing and Chinese AI companies get a beachhead in their markets," Remler said. China has "significant advantages" across many areas where AI will be deployed, including robotics, autonomous vehicles and state operations, Keegan McBride, director of science and technology policy at the Tony Blair Institute for Global Change, told me. Long term, if "manufacturing, robotics, automated scientific infrastructure and AI-enabled state operations become the defining metric for extracting value from AI, China is well positioned," he added. The compute challenge But compute is an uphill struggle for China. "The U.S. currently has the most capable models in the world, strong tech alliances and an overwhelming compute advantage," McBride said. U.S. export controls have severely limited Chinese AI firms' access to the most advanced chips. "This not only undermines their ability to train larger and more capable AI models, but also to serve inference on those models," said Remler. Moonshot had to pause new subscriptions due to limited capacity after demand for Kimi K3 boomed. Nevertheless, China is working to overcome compute constraints. Companies have been accused of accessing advanced compute overseas , distilling U.S. models and smuggling Nvidia chips into the country. Its own domestic chip industry is also gaining ground — though is still a significant distance behind America's. The U.S. also has other factors in its favor. While it (like China) has abundant energy potential, the country's private capital ecosystem has allowed companies like Anthropic and OpenAI to raise record funding and scale. Talent still flocks to the country. "If the United States can sustain these strengths, it will retain its AI advantage, serious geopolitical leverage, and ability to shape global AI rules," said Remler. But the race is anything but settled. Chinese AI systems are reaching new heights in terms of global adoption and capability. The defining question is no longer whether China can compete at the frontier, Dewardric McNeal, managing director and senior policyanalyst at Longview Global wrote in an article for CNBC earlier this month. "It is whether the U.S. can adapt quickly enough to compete against an increasingly sophisticated Chinese innovation ecosystem that is advancing not only on model performance but also on cost, deployment, customization, financing, standards, developer adoption and global reach." News edit SoftBank reported profit for its fiscal first quarter that beat market expectations, driven by a huge gain on its stake in Intel , while a rise in ByteDance's value helped its Vision Fund division. Anthropic's Mythos model created fake online identities as it looked to pressure humans into approving malicious code updates to an open source project, marking yet another cyber incident carried out by a frontier AI system. The European Union gained new powers to inspect AI models , restrict EU market access and fine model providers, raising the stakes for U.S. companies like Anthropic and OpenAI and Google Meta was ordered to pay $567 million into an abatement fund in New Mexico as part of a public nuisance case that's just one of many suits the company faces related to alleged harms caused by its apps. Hadrian has been valued at nearly $8 billion after fresh funding as money pours into defense tech. One more thing Palantir stock. Palantir stock skyrocketed 29.5% on Tuesday after the company reported "otherworldly" second-quarter earnings driven by customer demand for AI sovereign tools. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. More In The Tech Download The Tech Download: Anduril CEO Brian Schimpf talks AI in warfare and manufacturing push Arjun Kharpal watch now watch now VIDEO 39:29 Anduril CEO Brian Schimpf says AI and autonomous weapons will reshape modern warfare Arjun Kharpal How a Chinese AI model stopped OpenAI’s ‘unprecedented’ cyber attack Kai Nicol-Schwarz Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by