Iran moves to ban U.S., Israeli ships from Hormuz, charge toll : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Iran moves to ban U.S., Israeli ships from Hormuz, charge toll Iran's parliament is reviewing a plan to ban ships linked to the U.S., Israel and other "hostile countries" from transiting the Strait of Hormuz. The Trump administration has rejected the plan. Special Series Middle East conflict Conflict in the Middle East has been escalating. These stories provide context for current developments and the history that led up to them. Iran aims to ban U.S. and Israeli ships from Strait of Hormuz and charge others a toll Updated August 7, 2026 5:55 AM ET Originally published August 6, 2026 4:58 PM ET By NPR's International Desk A partial reopening of the Strait of Hormuz appears close Listen · 4:00 4-Minute Listen Playlist Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5923623/nx-s1-9878159" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Transcript A vessel is anchored off the coast of Sharjah in the United Arab Emirates on Aug. 3. The war with Iran nearly ground traffic to a halt in the Strait of Hormuz. AFP via Getty Images hide caption toggle caption AFP via Getty Images Iran's parliament is reviewing a plan to ban ships linked to the U.S., Israel and other "hostile countries" from transiting the Strait of Hormuz until Tehran is compensated for war damage, according to Iranian state media. The plan would impose fees of up to 7% of cargo value on commercial vessels that pass through the strait. It would also fine ships 20% of cargo if they violate Iran's conditions. Iran on Wednesday said it was finalizing an agreement on shipping routes with Oman, a U.S. ally that sits on the other side of the Strait of Hormuz. Iranian state media quoted the Foreign Ministry as saying that ships would enter through the strait's northern corridor near the Iranian coast and exit through the southern corridor near the Omani coast. Sponsor Message Oman has not commented. The Trump administration has disputed Iran's characterization of the agreement. "Any temporary routes will be without any impediments — meaning no approvals or permissions and no tolls or charges. The Strait of Hormuz is an international waterway and no party controls the lanes or the ability to transit through them," a U.S. official told NPR on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak on the record. President Trump later said the U.S. currently controls the strait through its naval blockade on Iran. This comes more than five months after the U.S. and Israel started their war against Iran on Feb. 28. The Strait of Hormuz — a key route for crude oil, liquefied natural gas and other goods — was open for shipping until the war. After Israel and the U.S. launched joint military attacks, Tehran struck back across the region and asserted control over the critical waterway. With Iran blocking the strait, the U.S. imposed a naval blockade on Iran in April and again in July , which it continues to enforce . Middle East conflict The U.S. is back to blockading Iran as the Strait of Hormuz standoff escalates The Trump administration and Iran's leadership signed a temporary memorandum of understanding in mid-June to stop the war and reopen the strait, but it broke down weeks later amid back-and-forth strikes. The strait's closure has caused a major disruption to fuel and fertilizer supplies, driven up prices and shaken economies around the world. On Thursday, Trump said negotiations to reopen the strait were progressing. Turkey's foreign minister, who has been assisting in mediations, said on Thursday a temporary agreement between the U.S. and Iran could be announced soon. Sponsor Message Gulf countries, which have borne the brunt of Iran's retaliation on U.S. military sites during the war, are encouraging all sides to reach an interim agreement that would de-escalate tensions in the region. They are worried that if there is a new escalation in attacks — as Trump has threatened — their vital oil infrastructure could be targeted by Iranian drones and missiles, inflicting catastrophic damage. Houthis attack Saudis On Thursday, the Iran-backed Houthi militias launched attacks in Saudi Arabia, injuring 11, according to Saudi military spokesperson Turki Al-Malki. Al-Malki said the Yemen-based Houthi militia carried out Thursday's attacks "using indiscriminate shelling against civilian objects" in Najran region. The majority of those injured were Saudis, among them a 4-year-old. The rest were Egyptian, Yemeni and Pakistani nationals, Al-Malki added in a statement. The Houthis also said they attacked the military camps of Yemeni government forces in central Yemen on Thursday, killing dozens of troops. The Yemeni government forces are backed by Saudi Arabia. People sail their boat past container ships anchoring near the Strait of Bab al-Mandeb off Yemen's coast in the Gulf of Aden on August 6, 2026. AFP via Getty Images/AFP hide caption toggle caption AFP via Getty Images/AFP The Houthis and Yemen's government forces have been locked in a war for many years, which ended in a truce in 2022. That ceasefire has been tested since late July when Houthis announced a blockade on Saudi oil vessels in the Red Sea in retaliation for strikes from Saudi Arabia on the airport in Saana, Yemen's capital. The Houthis have accused Saudi Arabia of hitting the airport while an Iranian official was traveling through Yemen last month. In recent weeks, Houthis have attacked several Saudi oil vessels in the Red Sea. Saudi Arabia has relied on this waterway as an alternative route to export its oil after the blockade of the Strait of Hormuz at the start of the U.S. and Israel war on Iran. Hadeel Al-Shalchi reported from Istanbul and Sameer Hashmi reported from Dubai. Alex Leff contributed to this story from Washington. Iran U.S. war in Iran Strait of Hormuz Oman houthis Saudi Arabia Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR State of the World from NPR Israeli settler activity increases in the West Bank Ukraine invasion — explained The soaring demand for Patriot missiles, from the Middle East to Ukraine State of the World from NPR Looking back at the deadly protests in Iran Middle East conflict Israel says it has serious concerns with the White House's Hamas disarmament deal Middle East conflict Trump says he's canceling Iran strikes; deal pending Middle East conflict Lebanese who fled the Israeli invasion visit to see what's left Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Family Amid cost of living stress, many parents are supporting children well into adulthood Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after The NPR news quiz Who or what is 'taking a step back from visibility'? The quiz knows National Trump signs 2 immigration actions to curb 'birth tourism,' limit birthright citizenship The Ripple Effect Why Andy Cohen is a Deadhead for life Politics Senate Homeland Security committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress NPR Editors' Picks Africa Besieged Sudanese city faces relentless drone strikes and risk of mass atrocities, U.N. warns National When tragedy strikes, America's wildland firefighters ask, was it 'somebody that we loved?' Asia Student kills at least 6 in a shooting at a high school in Thailand, authorities say Technology Court orders Instagram and Facebook's Meta to pay $567M to address kids' mental health online Sources & Methods Did Iran hack U.S. water systems? / Cyberwarfare abroad / Ukraine’s air defense gap Research News Sticky or slippery? Snails can change their slime to meet the moment Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices