What the market is saying about the U.S. yen intervention Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Markets What the market is saying about the U.S. intervention to prop up the yen Published Mon, Aug 3 2026 7:19 AM EDT Updated Mon, Aug 3 2026 9:43 AM EDT Joseph Wilkins WATCH LIVE Key Points Analysts see little hope for a yen rebound despite intervention on behalf of the U.S last week. The battered currency's fundamentals remain "weak." HSBC added that a structural shift in the Bank of Japan's underlying policies will be key to any sustained yen rebound. Thomas Trutschel | Photothek | Getty Images U.S. support for Japanese efforts to bolster the country's struggling currency has offered a sharp bounce for the yen in recent sessions, strengthening some 5% before paring gains on Monday. The coordinated intervention has lifted the yen to 157 to the dollar, down from just above 163, which represented its lowest level in four decades. But analysts see little hope for a sustained rally in the battered currency as its fundamentals remain under the spotlight. "Japan's policy mix remains unlikely to generate sustained yen strength," wrote UBS strategists Teck Leng Tan and Dominic Schnider on Monday. "With the BoJ expected to continue gradual policy normalization and real rates remaining negative, the yen should continue to be supported more by intervention risk than by domestic monetary fundamentals." The U.S. steps in to help support the yen. Selling dollars — or euros? Previous Japanese efforts to prop up the currency in 2022 and 2024 saw the BOJ sell dollars to buy the yen. While it is understood to have followed the same approach this time around, reports suggest the U.S. Treasury may have sold euros to buy yen instead. In any case, the greenback's reaction on Monday has been modest. ING markets head Chris Turner said the dollar's resilience "probably owes to the unresolved issue of whether the Federal Reserve will hike in September." The specter of higher interest rates means the potential for higher yields, which boosts international demand for Treasurys. HSBC added that a structural shift in the Bank of Japan's underlying policies will be key to any sustained rally in the currency. "Unless we see much faster BoJ rate hikes, and the government taking a clearer stand on the JPY – rather than saying that JPY weakness has both positive and negative implications – as well as dialling back its ambition for fiscal expansion, we still lack confidence in projecting a downtrend for USD-JPY," the analysts wrote in a Monday note. Could the intervention backfire? Robin Brooks, a senior fellow in economic studies at the Brookings Institution, wrote in a Substack post that the coordinated intervention could ultimately weaken rather than strengthen confidence in the yen. If Washington sold euros instead of dollars to buy yen, investors may infer U.S. officials were trying to spare Japan from selling U.S. Treasurys to finance intervention, he added. Reports that the U.S. sold euros rather than dollars to buy yen surprised markets because coordinated intervention has traditionally been funded with dollar assets. "This kind of twist in my opinion undercuts the efficacy of U.S. participation, because it invariably will have markets wondering why the US didn't just fund Yen buying out of Dollars," said Brooks. — CNBC's Ying Shan Lee also contributed to this report. Correction: Robin Brooks is a senior fellow in economic studies at the Brookings Institution. An earlier version misstated his title. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by