Gianni Infantino latest: Key questions as Fifa president faces executives - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Football Scores & Fixtures Tables World Cup Follow Your Team Pre-Season Fixtures Gossip Transfers Women European Leagues & Cups Quizzes Key questions as Infantino faces Fifa executives Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Gianni Infantino has been Fifa president since 2016 By Dale Johnson Football issues correspondent Published 5 August 2026, 11:08 BST Fifa president Gianni Infantino will meet with senior leaders of football's world governing body on Wednesday as criticism of his now scrapped plan to sell off Fifa's commercial and event operations intensifies. After secretary general Mattias Grafstrom sent a highly critical internal memo to Fifa staff, Infantino summoned members of the Fifa management board to Morocco. Tuesday also saw chief of global football development Arsene Wenger insist he was "not involved" in Infantino's Fifa Forward Enterprise proposal, adding that aborting it was "absolutely necessary and beyond question". Prince Ali, president of the Jordanian Football Association, then accused Fifa of creating a situation which "amounts to blackmail" over unpaid prize money and support for Infantino's re-election. These claims have not been verified by the BBC, and Fifa made no comment when approached. But Prince Ali's statement is indicative of the strength of feeling among the member associations that oppose Infantino. At the weekend, Uefa said it had lost confidence in Infantino's leadership . Several member associations - including Wales , with England set to follow suit - have withdrawn support for his re-election. Now Infantino will meet with Fifa's hierarchy to try to secure his position. Who is at the meeting and what is it for? Figure caption, Arrivals for the emergency Fifa meeting in Morocco BBC Sport understands the meeting will take place at Fifa's Africa office in Rabat. It will include Grafstrom and members of the Fifa management board. Among those in attendance will be finance chief Thomas Peyer, legal chief Emilio Garcia Silvero, chief of staff Daniel O'Toole, chief of member associations Elkhan Mammadov and media relations director Bryan Swanson. It is unclear the intention of the meeting, but it is expected that Infantino will attempt to build bridges in an attempt to create a path to remaining as president. However, this may not be straightforward. In his letter to Fifa staff, Grafstrom said the events of the past week had been "a sad and reproachable series of events" which were "difficult to comprehend and accept". On Friday, Kevin Lamour, Fifa's chief operating officer, said the private investment plan was "the project of one person". He added Fifa's own administration was "deceived". Infantino will have to show contrition and perhaps offer a route to reform if he is to win back the support of his inner circle. What are the key questions Infantino may face? Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Gianni Infantino was first elected as Fifa president in 2016 Carlos Cordeiro, Infantino's senior adviser on global strategy and governance, quit on Friday over the plan . Cordeiro said the proposal was "a bad deal for football" and would "mortgage football's future". Member associations had been given a deadline of 19 September to approve the plan or miss out on the extra funding that came as part of the deal. In his resignation announcement, Cordeiro offered a series of questions which Infantino will likely face at Wednesday's meeting. "Most troubling of all," Mr Cordeiro said, "is the absence of answers to fundamental questions. "Why this deal? Why now? What oversight exists? Who benefits? Was there a competitive process? What governance will be in place? What will investors ultimately gain, and at what cost to football? "These questions remain largely unanswered, and yet member associations are being asked to make a decision of enormous consequence in barely 50 days or risk being left behind. "That is not a responsible way to determine the future of the world's game. "This proposal has become a defining question for Fifa's future." On top of this, Infantino may also have to map out - or could offer - a route for reform. This may involve putting additional checks and balances in place that would make it impossible for such a plan to be devised and presented in this way again. Perhaps he could shelve his plans for a 64-team World Cup? Or offer to open up Fifa's cash reserves? Courting controversy and befriending Trump - the story of Fifa boss Infantino Published 4 days ago Infantino calls executive meeting as criticism mounts Published 1 day ago Infantino opponents threaten 'non co-operation' with Fifa Published 2 days ago Is Infantino going to quit today? It seems unlikely that Infantino will leave his position as Fifa president by the end of Wednesday. Infantino has, so far, shown no indication he is considering relinquishing his position. Indeed, he has been trying to rally his core supporter base around the globe. On Tuesday we saw African countries Egypt, Morocco, Niger, Mauritania and DR Congo all issue statements in support of Infantino. Infantino will, however, have to answer serious questions about a hugely controversial and damaging week for Fifa. There may be those in the room who will query his ability to turn this around, especially with such fierce criticism from European countries. Could that criticism be strong enough for Infantino to tender his resignation? More likely, perhaps, Infantino could see this as the start of the fightback. We may see a statement that will include an apology and a promise of change. What could happen next? If Infantino does vow to fight on, Uefa and countries from other confederations must look to find other ways to oust him. What other avenues are open? The Fifa Council could try to force Infantino's hand through an emergency meeting. Such a gathering would be triggered if 19 of the 37 Fifa Council members call for one. However, BBC Sport understands there are doubts that the 19 votes could be achieved. Another step could be an extraordinary congress of the 211 Fifa member associations, which would be held if one-fifth, or 43 associations, "make such a request in writing". So Uefa, which has 55 nations, can trigger the extraordinary congress whenever it wishes. That would take a minimum of two months from the point it is triggered, but more likely three months, and there is no guarantee of success. In effect, it would be a de facto election without there being another candidate as 106 votes would be needed to pass the vote of no confidence. Infantino would have time to win back votes from those who had been angered by the investment plan. Uefa can only really go down this route if it is confident of getting over the line. Which leaves finding a suitable candidate to fight the election at the Fifa Congress in March. Infantino stood unopposed when he was re-elected in 2019 and 2023 and if someone wants to battle him for the position, the deadline to announce their candidacy is 18 November. Concacaf president Victor Montagliani is seen as the most likely unity candidate to stand against Infantino. But there should be no expectation of success. Even at the height of the Fifa scandal in 2015, Sepp Blatter was re-elected as president eight days before he eventually resigned. If Infantino is still in position later on Wednesday, this story could yet have a long way to run. Infantino wants to create a show of unity - analysis By Dan Roan Sports editor Inside Fifa, the expectation is that Infantino has called the meeting in Rabat in an attempt to clear the air, have a show of unity and try to achieve some alignment with his senior staff. But while that may be the beleaguered president's intention, what remains uncertain is what kind of response he will receive from those present, especially given the highly critical statements issued in recent days by chief of global football development Wenger, secretary general Grafstrom and chief operating officer Lamour. Some staff are asking if that could have emboldened others at the top of the organisation to speak out against him or to even insist he steps down. It is no surprise Infantino has chosen Morocco, where he has been based over the past week. Morocco is friendly territory for him. Not only is the country hosting the next World Cup, its national football association has come out in support of him. And it is where he still hopes to be re-elected for a fourth term at next year's Congress. The Uefa-led rebellion against him will be hoping that it does not get that far, and that he has been forced to quit long before then. Related topics Football More on this story Follow your club with BBC Sport Published 8 June Listen to the latest Football Daily podcast Get football news sent straight to your phone Published 8 June Shorts Previous Next 0:46 Chelsea's16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli. 00:00:46, play video Chelsea's16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli 1:15 How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? 00:01:15, play video How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? 0:36 Salah mobbed by fans on arrival for Trabzonspor move. 00:00:36, play video Salah mobbed by fans on arrival for Trabzonspor move 0:38 What is the 'Bra-gate' controversy in cycling? 00:00:38, play video What is the 'Bra-gate' controversy in cycling? 0:30 Wilkinson's Welsh language progress. 00:00:30, play video Wilkinson's Welsh language progress 1:00 What has happened to Kulusevski? 00:01:00, play video What has happened to Kulusevski? 0:23 Why Monga chose Man City over Arsenal. 00:00:23, play video Why Monga chose Man City over Arsenal 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:50 Goodburn to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea. 00:00:50, play video Goodburn to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea Top stories Fifa admits mistakes but Infantino remains president Published 29 minutes ago Newcastle appoint Jaissle - what should fans expect? Published 3 hours ago Sloppy Arsenal suffer in Real Betis friendly loss Elsewhere on the BBC Superman 1978: The classic superhero blockbuster What did we learn from D4vd's preliminary hearing? Follow police investigations from the 999 call to conviction Undressing the hidden history of underwear Elsewhere in Sport Newcastle appoint Jaissle - what should fans expect? Lines to be first British woman in America's Cup team for 90 years How Buttler became T20 cricket's run-scoring GOAT Why Liverpool are ready to make Barcola third £100m signing No WSL experience but who is new Man Utd boss Olid? What happens next with Rashford and Man Utd? Why £1m-a-season deal will be hard for Pollock and Hearn to find A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season Runs and records galore as Sunrisers beat Spirit. Video Runs and records galore as Sunrisers beat Spirit Why we are still waiting for the 'Newey effect' - F1 Q&A The summer that changed Welsh football The ex-sandwich maker who cycles to Champions League games How Mumbai Indians takeover has affected MI London & Surrey 'No guarantees' - joyful Glasgow cannot banish all Commonwealth doubts Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.