Amanda Knox defends Fringe comedy show after claims it will 'trivialise violence' - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Scotland Scotland Politics Scotland Business Edinburgh, Fife & East Glasgow & West Highlands & Islands NE, Orkney & Shetland South Tayside & Central Amanda Knox defends Fringe comedy show after claims it will 'trivialise violence' Image caption, Amanda Knox's show, Cartwheel, discusses motherhood and how she will explain what happened in Perugia to her daughter By Claire Thomson , BBC Scotland and Pauline McLean , Scotland arts correspondent Published 6 August 2026, 20:14 BST Updated 2 hours ago Amanda Knox, who was convicted and later acquitted of murdering British student Meredith Kercher in Italy in 2007, has defended her solo comedy show following calls for it to be cancelled. The sold-out show called Cartwheel, which Knox will perform at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, discusses motherhood and how she will explain the case to her daughter. Knox told the BBC she is not the first person to use comedy to talk about traumatic events and said her material focuses on "how the world is unsafe and unfair towards women". But Stephanie Kercher, the victim's sister, said she is concerned it will "normalise and trivialise" violence against women, and Meredith, in particular. Speaking on BBC Breakfast , Stephanie Kercher, said: "What I would say [to Knox] is to think about the family here, think about her friends and to turn the tables if it was your sister that this had happened to, because I know you have a sister as well." Responding to the comments, Knox said: "The interesting irony of that is that my daughter is a huge motivation for me doing this show. "It's about how the world is unsafe and unfair towards women and what it means to raise a daughter in that world, knowing how bad it can be. "If they [Kercher's family] saw my show, they would recognise that." A petition against the show, set up by a friend of Meredith, has been signed by nearly 5,000 people. It states the show disrespects her memory and risks making light of such a harrowing event. Figure caption, Amanda Knox defends Fringe comedy show after Kercher family criticism Stephanie Kercher added she did not believe Meredith would find these topics of any comedic value. She said: "Our family's pain is immense. I can't explain to you how much pain our family have been through, and also we're talking two decades later now, this pain. "I think that if it was a generic theme, as many comedy shows are, even when they're pushing the boundaries, it would be different. "Because this is associated with an individual case and individual person, I think that's where the worry lies here for me, because who else is this going to then open up this opportunity for?" But Knox told BBC Scotland News she does not downplay the seriousness of the case and is respectful in her approach. "I hope people will honestly engage in my work and recognise the deep heart and sensitivity that I bring to it as I tell a very personal story," she said. Image source, PA Media Image caption, Meredith Kercher was an exchange student in Italy when she was murdered in her home The comedy show is set to run over 11 days in the Gilded Balloon Teviot. Its title Cartwheel references a story that once claimed Knox did cartwheels in the police station after her British roommate's death. She said the cartwheel becomes a metaphor throughout the show. "It is about acknowledging that bad things happen in life which will turn you upside down," Knox said. "But it's also about not letting that arrest your momentum because the only way you can land on your feet is through those difficult experiences." Knox added she would love to have an open and honest conversation with Kercher's family but claimed she has never had the opportunity. "It would be incredible for them to see me for who I really am instead of the idea that was delivered to them by people in bad hands," she said. Figure caption, 'Meredith wouldn't find any comedy value', sister says during BBC Breakfast interview Since Meredith Kercher's death, Knox has written two books about her imprisonment and served as an executive producer on the biographical drama The Twisted Tale of Amanda Knox. Now 39, she is married with two children and lives in Washington state. Knox, from Seattle, and Kercher, from Surrey, were both exchange students sharing a house in the university town of Perugia. Alongside her then-boyfriend, Raffaele Sollecito, Knox was arrested on suspicion of murdering Kercher, 21, who was found dead in their house. Her throat had been cut and she had been sexually assaulted. Knox was found guilty and spent four years in an Italian prison before she and Sollecito were acquitted through an appeal. She returned home to the US in 2011. A retrial in 2014 reinstated Knox and Sollecito's convictions but Italy's top appeals court finally overturned them in 2015. Ivory Coast-born Rudy Guede served 13 years of a 16-year sentence for Kercher's murder after his fingerprints were found at the scene. The court ruled he did not act alone but after Knox and Sollecito were acquitted, no other accomplices were convicted. Related topics Edinburgh Festival Fringe Edinburgh More on this story Meredith Kercher's sister criticises Amanda Knox comedy show Published 3 hours ago Amanda Knox 'tired' after reconviction but vows to fight Published 7 June 2024 Amanda Knox: Figure at the centre of a saga Published 27 March 2015 From other local news sites Edinburgh's Writer's Museum unveils new 'Colours of the Past' exhibition External Edinburgh Evening News Champion Afghan boxer named as suspect in Elisabeth Jane Ross case External Edinburgh Evening News “Mind boggling” not to require full assessment of Fife data centre says MSP External Central Fife Times Future doctor Emma and her fellow High School of Dundee pupils celebrate exam results success External Tayside and Fife Courier L-plate teen caught drink-driving in Dunfermline was 'doing someone a favour' External Central Fife Times Couple retire together after nearly 60 years of teaching between them External East Lothian Courier Information about BBC links to other news sites The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens 1:03 Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show. 00:01:03, play video Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show 0:58 Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:58 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns. 00:00:58, play video Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:19 England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations. 00:01:19, play video England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya Top stories Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption Published 20 minutes ago Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases Published 8 hours ago Uefa says boycott may still go ahead as FA withdraws Infantino support Published 5 hours ago More to explore The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Steve the featherless parrot gets his colour back Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives Why aren't more women getting into padel? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 Arrests in Thetford as disorder continues for third night 2 Artificial Intelligence used to design brand new viruses 3 Met Police boss admits mistake over plagiarism row 4 Amanda Knox defends Fringe comedy show after claims it will 'trivialise violence' 5 South Korea space agency shares Moon images after SpaceX rocket debris crash 6 Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order 7 Former duke chased by alleged stalker, court hears 8 Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption 9 Boxer charged with killing aid worker in Athens after his wife gave police 'key' details 10 Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.