Afghan boxer arrives at Greek court in connection with death of Scottish woman - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Scotland Scotland Politics Scotland Business Edinburgh, Fife & East Glasgow & West Highlands & Islands NE, Orkney & Shetland South Tayside & Central Afghan boxer appears in court in connection with death of Scottish woman Figure caption, Sharif Ahmadzai leaving court after the hearing By Ben Philip , Reporting from Athens and Megan Bonar , BBC Scotland Published 5 August 2026, 08:36 BST Updated 10:22 BST The man suspected of killing a Scottish aid worker in Greece has appeared in court in Athens. The body of Elisabeth Ross was found in a suitcase at an abandoned building on 18 July, days after she had been reported missing. Sharif Ahmadzai, who is 26 and from Afghanistan, was told during the private court hearing that he faces charges of homicide with intent, robbery and weapons offences. He made no comment and the case was deferred until Thursday, when it is expected that Ahmadzai will be formally charged. Homicide with intent is equivalent to a murder charge in Scots law. Ahmadzai was driven to court in a grey Hyundai i30 with blacked out windows for the hearing. Image source, Facebook Image caption, Elisabeth Ross is believed to have been working with immigrants in Greece He was escorted from the court more than an hour later by police officers with their faces covered. He kept his head down as he walked from the building back to the car. Police said Ross - who is from Edinburgh and is known to family and friends as Lisa - had been volunteering with a refugee support group based in Athens. She arrived in Greece on 26 June and stayed in the Keratsini area of Piraeus until 10 July. Her body was found in the Kypseli district of Athens on 18 July. Police said the coroner's initial report failed to determine a cause of death, but more detailed examinations concluded it was an "obvious criminal act, likely asphyxiation". Image source, PA Media Image caption, Sharif Ahmadzai, 26, arrived at the court building in a grey car The BBC understands Ahmadzai, who left Afghanistan after being orphaned aged 15, lives in Greece with his American wife and their child. After leaving his home country, he travelled to Greece via Iran and Turkey, according to a video telling his story , external which was published by the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC). He then settled in a refugee camp on the island of Lesbos, where he met his wife and converted to Christianity. The couple then set up the charity Love Every Nation Athens to help other refugees. He won a Greek super lightweight boxing title earlier this year. The president of the Union of Police Officers of Southeast Attica, George Kalliakmanis, said it was "possible" Ross and Ahmadzai had crossed paths through charity work. He said they were investigating whether Ahmadzai had a key to the apartment Ross was staying in. The union said it had verified footage appearing to show Ahmadzai carrying a suitcase which is believed to have contained the body. It added that a location sharing app, used by Ahmadzai's wife, showed that the suspect had been at the property in Rethymnou Street where Ross is thought to have died. Kalliakmanis said Ahmadzai had admitted moving the body but denied murder, claiming he had found Ross dead in the bathroom. The officer said police believed the suspect took the victim's bank card and phone, and "made sure" to send text messages to her family and friends to "make it seem like she was still alive". He said the police also believed the suspect used the victim's bank card to make withdrawals totalling "around €10,000". Kalliakmanis added that Ahmadzai's wife had no involvement or prior knowledge of the alleged crime. A local shopkeeper, Anni Ntinta, told BBC News the area had been "shaken up" by the incident. She said: "The whole neighbourhood is in major distress. Even the young children. My own daughter, who is 10 years old, is terrified and consumed by fear." Additional reporting by Daphne Toli in Athens Related topics Edinburgh Greece Athens More on this story Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece Published 1 day ago Church tribute to 'precious' missionary found dead in suitcase in Greece Published 2 days ago The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia 0:50 Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea. 00:00:50, play video Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea 1:01 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller. 00:01:01, play video 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:49 Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales. 00:00:49, play video Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales 0:59 The city closing down streets so children can play. 00:00:59, play video The city closing down streets so children can play 1:23 The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII. 00:01:23, play video The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII 1:30 What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK. 00:01:30, play video What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK 0:37 Crispy butter beans with whipped feta. 00:00:37, play video Crispy butter beans with whipped feta 0:57 Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites. 00:00:57, play video Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport Top stories Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate Published 1 hour ago Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London Published 5 hours ago University of Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns Published 25 minutes ago More to explore The cost of being single – and how friends are teaming up to beat it From flip flops to fisherman's sandals: How to look after your feet this summer 'My grandmother subjected my baby to female genital mutilation behind my back' 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' Kate Nash on Irish history, heritage and covering Sinéad O'Connor There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media 'This year has been the worst for my heat anxiety' Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Love shouldn't feel like fear How hydrated do you really need to be? Melvin Odoom on the MiniDiscs he can't throw away The origin story of the first Comic Con Most read 1 University of Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 2 Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London 3 Family 'devastated' by death of girl, 9, as man charged with murder 4 See the Sun like never before with most detailed images yet 5 El-Sayed's victory sends tremors through Democratic Party 6 Iran says it has agreed Strait of Hormuz shipping route with Oman 7 Student loan repayment rates an 'unsustainable burden', chancellor told 8 Apology after carer fed dog food to elderly woman by mistake 9 Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate 10 Drone carrying explosives found at German airport, police say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.