Grocery prices are Americans' top affordability challenge: Report Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Personal Finance Affordability is a 'defining challenge' for Americans, with food costs leading the way, report finds Published Wed, Aug 5 2026 12:08 PM EDT Updated Wed, Aug 5 2026 2:28 PM EDT Jessica Dickler @jdickler WATCH LIVE Key Points Most Americans cite rising food costs as the top barrier to economic mobility, according to a new report by the McKinsey Institute for Economic Mobility and the W.K. Kellogg Foundation. Many consumers rely on credit cards to pay for necessities, such as groceries, but some can't make the minimum monthly payment, a separate Urban Institute analysis found. watch now VIDEO 3:30 03:30 Affordability is going to be a 'huge issue' in the midterm elections, says PIMCO's Libby Cantrill Squawk Box Affordability is the "defining challenge" when it comes to economic mobility, according to a new report by the McKinsey Institute for Economic Mobility and the W.K. Kellogg Foundation. The survey of 30,000 Americans across income levels found that 90% of those polled cited groceries and food prices as a top cost concern, even over other key expenses, such as housing and healthcare . "We face a common challenge, and that is the rising cost of living," said John-Paul Julien, a partner at McKinsey & Co. and co-founder of the McKinsey Institute for Economic Mobility . "Although people are experiencing the economy differently, there is this shared feeling that rising costs are making it difficult to get ahead." Read more CNBC personal finance coverage Some high earners will soon owe taxes on years of deferred capital gains Does the 4% retirement withdrawal rule still work? How to best maximize income Fed leaves rates unchanged in July. Here's how it could affect your wallet EVs aren't following the 'law of used cars.' What it means for buyers, sellers CNBC's Financial Advisor 100: Best financial advisors, top firms ranked CNBC Elite Advisors: Top ultra-high net worth wealth management firms for 2026 Consumer prices pulled back in June , but food costs edged higher once again, bringing the year-over-year gain to 3%, according to the latest consumer price index . Food at home, a measure of price changes at the grocery store, also increased from a year earlier. The Bureau of Labor Statistics is set to release the next CPI reading, with July data, on Aug. 12. Some Americans take on debt to buy food A separate Urban Institute analysis released in mid-July found that many families used credit and savings to pay for groceries in 2025, and many showed signs of strain. About 35% of adults paid for groceries with a credit card and paid their bills in full at the end of the month. Another 20% used a credit card and paid less than the full balance but still made the minimum monthly payment, according to the Washington-based think tank, while 8.7% did not always make the minimum payment. The report is based on data from the Urban Institute's December 2025 Well-Being and Basic Needs Survey, which polled more than 10,000 adults. Cardholders who pay their bill in full every month can maximize rewards while avoiding interest charges. Borrowers with revolving balances pay annual interest rates of more than 20%, on average, on their debt. "There's no doubt that there's pressure in terms of affordability in this country," said Marshall Lux, a visiting fellow with the Psaros Center for Financial Markets and Policy at Georgetown University's McDonough School of Business. However, "like everything else, it's complicated." With grocery purchases mixed in with other credit card spending, it's difficult to pinpoint what's causing some consumers to fall behind on their payments, he said: "It's hard to draw a straight line." A more "perennial" problem is the increased use of buy now, pay later for everyday expenses, Lux said. Nearly 1 in 10 adults used buy now, pay later to pay for groceries; and among those who relied on installment payments, about 35% missed a BNPL payment, according to the Urban Institute. Generally, missed BNPL payments incur late fees, deferred interest or other penalties, depending on the lender. A separate March survey from LendingTree of more than 2,000 adults found that 29% of buy now, pay later users said they've used these short-term loans to buy groceries — up from 14% two years ago. Customers check out at a supermarket on August 12, 2025 in New York City. Liao Pan | China News Service | Getty Images With food-at-home prices up about 25% over the past five years, "families experience this as a cumulative increase," said Kassandra Martinchek, a public policy expert at the Urban Institute and co-author of the study. As a result, households are under "sustained pressure," she said — leading to larger debt burdens that are harder to pay down. "We know that access to credit is a crucial lifeline for families, but relying on credit can lead to future financial instability," Martinchek said. Although low- and moderate-income households experienced more repayment challenges compared with high-income households, even some adults with higher incomes struggled with repayments, the report also found. That "suggests this challenge is broad-based across a lot of consumers and families," Martinchek said. Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by