Imax stock: 'The Odyssey' fuels all-time high Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Entertainment 'The Odyssey' fuels Imax stock to all-time high. CEO calls momentum a 'flywheel' Published Mon, Aug 3 2026 1:14 PM EDT Updated Mon, Aug 3 2026 4:23 PM EDT Sarah Whitten @sarahwhit10 WATCH LIVE Key Points Imax shares hit an all-time high Monday. The move came after the company posted its third weekend in a row of more than $50 million in global ticket sales. The stock is up 38% year to date, on pace for its fourth straight annual gain, and has risen 100% over the last 12 months. In this article IMAX Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 3:26 03:26 IMAX CEO Rich Gelfond on The Odyssey's blockbuster success: Christopher Nolan is a genius Squawk on the Street Imax is on a winning streak, and it has Christopher Nolan to thank. Shares of the entertainment technology company hit an all-time high Monday as it continues to haul in box office receipts from Nolan's "The Odyssey." Imax CEO Rich Gelfond said Monday the film is tracking almost double what Nolan's "Oppenheimer" raked in in 2023. "The guy's a genius. How do you thank a genius? You work with him again," Gelfond told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street." This is like the eighth film we've done with Chris." But Gelfond said the company's success — including its best month of July on record — is about more than the box office: "It's a flywheel." "We're opening more theaters, we're installing more theaters, our recurring cash flow is greater, our cash conversion rate is higher," he said. "So, it's really based on the fundamentals." Gelfond noted that Monday's 6% stock jump was partially a response to another big box office weekend for the company. Imax posted its third weekend in a row of more than $50 million in global ticket sales, and sustained demand could extend the streak. In total, the company has generated $221 million in global box office from "The Odyssey," representing nearly 25% of the total global tally for the Universal flick. IMAX stock hits all-time high. Imax has already extended the run of Nolan's epic, particularly the coveted 70 mm screenings, through mid-September. Many of those showings are already sold out globally, Gelfond said. While Imax offers a variety of screen options, including digital versions of the 70 mm aspect ratio, these viewings are often cropped to fit the auditorium in which they are being shown. There are only 25 screens in the U.S. that can play physical film reels and only 41 locations in total around the world. Those screens are limited in number because the majority of movies are filmed and screened digitally. "I just found out this morning in Montpellier, France ... the tourist bureau found out there's a 30% increase in ridership on their metro since [the opening of 'The Odyssey']," Gelfond said. "People are flying to different countries. You know, like here in New York, you can't get a ticket until September. It's really become like a luxury brand, almost." The box office success of "The Odyssey" has seemed to reverse Wall Street's worries that the delayed release of Netflix's and Greta Gerwig's "Narnia: The Magician's Nephew" would prevent Imax from reaching its annual guidance. The stock is up 38% year to date, on pace for its fourth straight annual gain and has risen 100% over the past 12 months. Shares closed above $50 apiece on Monday for the first time in Imax history. Earlier this year, Imax held "preliminary talks" with potential buyers, CNBC previously reported . On Monday, Gelfond once again left the door open to a possible sale. "The company's doing great, it's never been better," he said. "If people approach us, you know, we'll listen." Imax will look to add to its box office gains this weekend when it begins showing screenings of Sony and Marvel's "Spider-Man: Brand New Day," which had been boxed out of Imax because of a deal to show "The Odyssey" for a period of exclusivity. Still to come to global Imax screens this year is Zach Cregger's take on "Resident Evil;" Tom Cruise's newest feature, "Digger"; "Godzilla Minus Zero"; David Fincher's "The Adventures of Cliff Booth," which stars Brad Pitt and is based on Quentin Tarantino's "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood"; and Paramount's "Street Fighter." Warner Bros. ' and Denis Villeneuve's "Dune: Part Three" will cap off the year. VIDEO 6:56 06:56 Watch CNBC's full interview with IMAX CEO Rich Gelfond Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by