SpaceX beats expectations by posting revenue of $7.81bn in second quarter | SpaceX | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness The SpaceX Starship and Super Heavy v3 Booster lift off from the launch complex in Starbase, Texas, on 24 July 2026. Photograph: Steve Nesius/Reuters View image in fullscreen The SpaceX Starship and Super Heavy v3 Booster lift off from the launch complex in Starbase, Texas, on 24 July 2026. Photograph: Steve Nesius/Reuters SpaceX SpaceX beats expectations by posting revenue of $7.81bn in second quarter Company beat analysts’ predictions with a revenue jump of 92% since June, following stock plummet after IPO Dara Kerr Tue 4 Aug 2026 17.18 EDT First published on Tue 4 Aug 2026 15.45 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google For the first time since SpaceX went public, the world is getting a first-hand look into the trillion-dollar corporation’s financials. The Elon Musk -run business reported its second quarter earnings on Tuesday, saying that its revenue jumped 92% since June. SpaceX beat Wall Street’s expectations, reporting $7.81bn in revenue, versus analysts’ predictions of $6.93bn. It reported a loss of $541m. The positive numbers will likely quell some fears from nervous investors who have been waiting for more insight into the rocket ship company’s potential for profit. SpaceX had a blockbuster initial public offering in June with the largest-ever stock market debut in history. The IPO transformed SpaceX into a $2tn company and briefly crowned Musk the world’s first trillionaire. But since then, the company’s stock has plummeted by 24%, erasing nearly $500bn in market cap. Elon Musk’s xAI sues Minnesota over law banning ‘nudification’ technology Read more “This report comes at an important time, the share price crashed and burned in recent weeks, it is down 50% from its peak and is trading below its IPO price,” said Kathleen Brooks, research director at XTB. “Unsurprisingly, investors are jittery leading up to this report as it may determine the long-term direction for the stock.” SpaceX is a conglomeration of several of Musk’s businesses, including the satellite maker and internet service provider Starlink, the artificial intelligence platform xAI, the social media company X and the SpaceX rocket business. While expansive, the company is not profitable. Last year, SpaceX pulled in revenue of $18.7bn, while recording an operating loss of $4.3bn . The only profitable portion of the company is its connectivity arm, Starlink. For comparison, the social media company Meta generated revenue of more than $200bn last year with a net income upwards of $60bn. Breaking out the revenue for SpaceX’s three main businesses, the company reported $962m for space, $4.29bn for connectivity and $2.56bn for AI, which beat analysts’ forecasts of $835m for space, $3.38bn for connectivity and $2.18bn for AI, according to XTB. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Every weekday Sign up to Business Today Get set for the working day – we'll point you to all the business news and analysis you need every morning Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion The earnings come just before the first “lockup” shares in SpaceX will be free for public trading. Lockup shares are what employees and some insiders obtain before a company goes public, which they cannot trade for a set amount of time. The purpose of a lockup is to prevent a deluge of shares from hitting the market, which can depreciate the stock price. On Thursday, 912m shares from SpaceX will be open for trading – that’s more than double the current amount available and despite the positive earnings report could still weaken the company’s share price. Explore more on these topics SpaceX Quarterly results Elon Musk X news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)