Calls to ban disposable barbecues in England and Wales over wildfire risk | Wildfires | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 3 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland Smoke rises from a wildfire near Dunwich Heath on the Suffolk coast. Photograph: Tolga Akmen/EPA View image in fullscreen Smoke rises from a wildfire near Dunwich Heath on the Suffolk coast. Photograph: Tolga Akmen/EPA Wildfires Calls to ban disposable barbecues in England and Wales over wildfire risk Lib Dems and many Labour MPs join farmers, landowners and firefighters in urging temporary prohibition Fiona Harvey Environment editor Tue 4 Aug 2026 13.46 EDT Last modified on Tue 4 Aug 2026 18.03 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Farmers and landowners are calling for a temporary ban on disposable barbecues in England and Wales, as they warn of the risk of igniting wildfires. The call, which has also been made by firefighters and is backed by the Liberal Democrats and many Labour MPs, comes as much of England faces further hot dry weather, despite rain in some areas. The deputy president of the National Farmers Union, Paul Tompkins, said wildfires were an urgent concern as farmers counted the cost of lost or poor harvests caused by record heatwaves supercharged by the climate crisis over the last three months and the worst drought in many areas since 1976. Dry conditions have meant vegetation is much more prone to ignition through carelessness or deliberate fire-starting. Tompkins said: “A stray match or single spark, and months of hard work can be wiped out in just minutes; crops destroyed and harvest ruined, vital machinery and infrastructure damaged and livestock put at serious risk. “Beyond the immediate losses, there could be long-term consequences for soil health, grassland productivity and confidence of farm businesses already facing significant pressures .” View image in fullscreen A wildfire in Essex, whose origin was traced back to a roadside layby. Photograph: Justin Kase/Alamy He called for retailers to remove disposable barbecues from sale, and for local authorities to issue public space protection orders prohibiting the lighting of barbecues, campfires and camping stoves. The MP for High Peak in Derbyshire, Jon Pearce, wrote to retailers this week, asking them to stop selling disposable barbecues. Most big supermarkets have already halted sales and some have not sold them for years. But they are still widely available in smaller shops, from some hardware and DIY stores and online. Wildfires have affected every region of the UK this year, with more than 20,000 hectares (50,000 acres) estimated to have burned. There have been fires in the Rhondda Valley in Wales this week and the Cairngorms in Scotland last week, while a blaze in Suffolk came within a few miles of the Sizewell B nuclear plant . Fires have been going on for months. Blazes hit the Mourne Mountains in Northern Ireland , areas near Aberdeen, and the Brecon Beacons national park in Wales. View image in fullscreen A helicopter carries water collected from the sea near Sizewell B nuclear power station to drop on a nearby wildfire last week. Photograph: Joe Giddens/PA Tompkins also called for more grazing in moorland areas to reduce vegetation, but conservationists are wary of overgrazing in delicate habitats. Some observers have blamed rewilding for the increasing wildfire risk , a claim rebuffed by experts who said rewilding land could vastly reduce risky conditions . The financier and conservationist Ben Goldsmith pointed to the reintroduction of beavers in some rivers , which has increased the surrounding land’s ability to store water and helped to avoid some of the worst impacts of the drought. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Every weekday Sign up to First Edition Our morning email breaks down the key stories of the day, telling you what’s happening and why it matters Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion The Country Land and Business Association (CLA), which represents landowners, also called for a ban on disposable barbecues, but at the same time a lifting of the ban on controlled burning. It is banned in England to protect wildlife and habitats, and to reduce carbon emissions. The CLA’s president, Gavin Lane, said: “Controlled burning is one of several proven ways to reduce the danger. Done properly, it clears the vegetation that feeds a wildfire and slows its spread. Natural England must lift the ban on controlled burning and look seriously at how it could prevent further loss.” Rain fell in the north of England and Scotland on Tuesday, while thundery showers in Northern Ireland and scattered showers in Wales brought some relief. South-east England was mainly dry despite overcast skies. A government spokesperson said: “There are no plans to introduce a blanket ban on disposable barbecues. “We take the risk of fires very seriously, which is why we’ve taken action to make disposable barbecues safer to use, including making sure they follow strict product safety rules and giving councils the power to ban them in high-risk areas.” Explore more on these topics Wildfires England Wales Extreme heat Extreme weather Farming news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Two helicopters collide outside Athens as Greece battles to control wildfires 2d ago Daughter of British couple killed in Spanish wildfire rejects claim they ignored order to leave 4d ago Europe burns: a visual guide to the wildfires 5d ago ‘Extremely scary findings’ show climate crisis is supercharging Europe’s wildfire weather 5d ago ‘We can’t make it better again’: what Europe’s wildfires tell us about the climate crisis 5d ago Wildfire near Sizewell nuclear plant causes ‘total devastation’ to Suffolk landscape 4d ago Race to extinguish blazes across Europe as fire weather breaks records 5d ago Will brutal wildfires force French leaders to take climate crisis seriously? 5d ago Most viewed Most viewed UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)