These Moving Bags 32% Off on Amazon | NBC Selected IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Top stories Owala’s back-to-school sale is here The best keratosis pilaris treatments for smoother skin Packing your skin care and makeup is so much easier with this toiletry bag How often should you change and wash your towels REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gearpost, REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gear Walmart has up to 65% off back-to-school must-haves 35+ college-exclusive back-to-school deals Skip to Content About Us Wellness All Wellness Skin Care Hair Care Oral Care Health Fitness Sleep Home All Home Small appliances Bedding & bath Cleaning Vacuums Office Gardening Kitchen All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech All Tech Electronics Personal Tech TVs Audio Computers Cameras Pets All Pets Dogs Cats Pet Care Lifestyle All Lifestyle Sports Travel Parenting Apparel Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping Subscribe Share About Us Wellness Main Menu All Wellness Skin Care Wellness All Skin Care Hair Care Wellness All Hair Care Oral Care Wellness All Oral Care Health Wellness All Health Fitness Wellness All Fitness Sleep Wellness All Sleep Home Main Menu All Home Small appliances Home All Small appliances Bedding & bath Home All Bedding & bath Cleaning Home All Cleaning Vacuums Home All Vacuums Office Home All Office Gardening Kitchen Main Menu All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech Main Menu All Tech Electronics Tech All Electronics Personal Tech Tech All Personal Tech TVs Tech All TVs Audio Tech All Audio Computers Cameras Pets Main Menu All Pets Dogs Pets All Dogs Cats Pets All Cats Pet Care Pets All Pet Care Lifestyle Main Menu All Lifestyle Sports Travel Lifestyle All Travel Parenting Apparel Lifestyle All Apparel Footwear Lifestyle All Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales Main Menu All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories Main Menu All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides Main Menu All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping More from NBC Sign up for the Selected Newsletter Check out Shop TODAY NBC News TODAY About Help Careers Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information CA Notice Terms Of Service NBC News Sitemap Advertise Ad Choices Follow Selected © 2026 NBCNEWS.COM NBC Selected independently determines what we cover and recommend. When you click on or buy through our links, we earn a commission. Learn more . Deals and Sales Skip the garbage bags: These sturdy moving bags hold clothes, linens and more — they’re now only $15 One set of four might get your entire wardrobe into a dorm or small apartment. Aug. 6, 2026, 9:52 AM EDT Cory Fernandez Commerce Editor Skip to table of contents The Cosy Family moving bags have handles and come in multiple sizes. Amazon If you’re a college student (or shopping for one) then you’re probably in the process of moving back into a dorm or off-campus apartment. This year, don’t throw your clothes and blankets into a garbage bag — upgrade to moving bags that are sturdy and will protect your stuff even in bad weather. Cosy Family moving bags are on sale, with multi-packs marked down more than 32 percent. Before you head back to campus or start packing up for your next apartment or home, make sure to order these so they arrive in time for move-in day. Keep reading to find out why even NBC Selected editors love them. Cosy Family Heavy Duty Extra Large Moving Bags (Set of 4) 10,853 Amazon Reviews $ 14.99 $ 21.99 Amazon Now 32% off The Cosy Family moving bags are available in a pack of four 24-gallon bags for just $15. Each bag has a capacity of around 65 pounds and a pair of handles that makes it easy to carry even when filled with clothes, equipment, bedding and more. They also have zippered closures that go all the way across the top and down on the sides for easy filling. Each bag is 13 x 14 x 29 inches (imagine an extra long duffel bag) and since they have a rectangular shape, they’re perfect for moving folded clothing and other small boxes or square shaped items. NBC Selected senior editor Shalwah Evans has two sets of the four-pack (eight bags in total) and she says it’s enough to move all of her husband’s clothes and linens for their entire apartment. “I love how sturdy the straps are. Moving is stressful enough; the last thing I want to worry about is things falling apart or hurting myself in the process and I didn’t have to think about any of that when using these bags,” she says. “They’re so much larger than I thought they’d be — which was nice — and they hold a ton of stuff. I even put my shoes (still in boxes) in them on our last move.” Evans also loves that they aren’t as bulky as regular storage bins, and that they’re collapsible and foldable when they’re empty; they easily slide into a closet. They can also be used to store clothes, coats and jackets when they’re not in season. Why this deal is worth it You get four moving bags for well under $20, which is cheaper than garbage bags since you can use them for storage or for moving again. If you don’t have a budget for a moving truck and/or you prefer to move back into dorms or apartments with a small car, they’ll be more flexible than bulky boxes. 32% off Available in multiple sizes and sets Perfect for storing clothing and bedding Collapsible when empty More flexible than boxes and have built in straps for easy carrying Related selected selected This Keurig coffee maker is a space-saving essential for dorms and small apartments, and it’s 53% off Want more from NBC Selected? Sign up for our newsletter, The Selection, and shop smarter. Why trust NBC Selected? I’m a commerce editor at NBC Selected, where I write about deals and sale events daily. I also write about home and kitchen appliances as well as storage, organization and decor. Catch up on NBC Selected’s in-depth coverage of tech and tools , wellness and more, and follow us on Facebook , Instagram , Twitter and TikTok to stay up to date. Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off Cory Fernandez Cory Fernandez is a commerce editor for NBC Selected, and an authority on all things food, cooking, kitchen, home, and general lifestyle. Skip the garbage bags: These sturdy moving bags hold clothes, linens and more — they’re now only $15 The 81+ best new products this month from Hoka, Béis, Sony, Olaplex and more Adidas, Rothy’s, Away and more: Here’s everything we bought and tested in the month of July Latest articles Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off ABOUT CONTACT HELP CAREERS PRIVACY POLICY DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION CA NOTICE TERMS OF SERVICE NBC NEWS SITEMAP AD CHOICES ADVERTISE DEALS & SALES SKIN CARE HEALTH TECH NBCNews.com © 2026 SELECTED | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.