Wells Fargo Reflect® Card Review: Great for Paying Off Debt, Not for Rewards | The Motley Fool This device is too small If you're on a Galaxy Fold, consider unfolding your phone or viewing it in full screen to best optimize your experience. Skip to main content Advertiser Disclosure Many of the offers that appear on this site are from companies from which The Motley Fool receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where products appear on this site (including, for example, the order in which they appear) and may influence which products we write about, but our product ratings are not influenced by compensation. We do not include all companies or offers available in the marketplace. Websites may earn compensation when a customer clicks on a link, when an application is approved, or when an account is opened. | Accessibility Options Credit Cards Credit Cards Best Of Lists Best Credit Cards of August 2026 Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Credit Card Sign-Up Bonuses Best Travel Credit Cards By Issuer Best Discover Cards Best Capital One Cards Best Wells Fargo Cards All Credit Card Reviews Credit Card Tools Credit Card Interest Calculator Balance Transfer Calculator Credit Card Guides Credit Cards 101: A Beginner's Guide Credit Card Guides Credit Card Comparisons Credit Card Articles Banks Banks Best Of Lists Best High-Yield Savings Accounts Best Checking Accounts Best CD Rates Best Money Market Accounts Bank Reviews SoFi Checking & Savings Review American Express High Yield Savings Review Capital One 360 Performance Savings Review All Bank Reviews Knowledge & Tools Bank Account Comparisons Emergency Fund Calculator All Banking Resources Banking Guides Guide to Banking How to Choose a Bank Types of Bank Accounts All Banking Articles Brokers Brokers Best Of Lists Best Stock Brokers of August 2026 Best Free Stock Trading Apps Best IRA Accounts Best Options Trading Platforms Best for Beginners Best Stock Brokers for Beginners Best Investment Apps for Beginners Top Reviews Fidelity Review SoFi Review Robinhood Review All Brokerage Reviews Guides How to Choose a Brokerage Account How to Open a Brokerage Account Guide to Brokerage Fees All Brokerage Articles Crypto Crypto Best Of Lists Best Crypto Exchanges Best Bitcoin Exchanges Best Ethereum Exchanges Top Reviews Coinbase Review Gemini Review Crypto.com Review All Crypto Reviews Knowledge A Complete Guide to Cryptocurrencies Types of Cryptocurrencies How to Invest in Crypto All Cryptocurrency Articles Mortgages Mortgages Best Of Lists Best Mortgage Lenders of August 2026 Best Refinance Lenders Best Mortgage Lenders for First-Time Homebuyers Best Home Equity Loan Lenders Best Mortgage Rates Today's Best Mortgage Rates Today's Best Refinance Rates 15-Year Mortgage Rates 30-Year Mortgage Rates Mortgage Tools Mortgage Calculator Get Pre-Approved For a Mortgage Guide to Mortgages Guides Mortgage Lender Reviews First-Time Home Buyer Guide All Mortgage Articles Insurances Insurances Auto Insurance Best Auto Insurance Auto Insurance Reviews Auto Insurance Articles All Auto Insurance Resources Homeowners Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Homeowners Insurance Reviews Homeowners Insurance Articles All Homeowners Insurance Resources Life Insurance Life Insurance Reviews Life Insurance Articles All Life Insurance Resources Loans Loans Best Of Lists Best Personal Loans of August 2026 Hardship Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Lender Reviews Upstart Personal Loans Review Citi Personal Loans Review All Personal Loans Reviews Personal Loan Tools Loan Payoff Calculator How Much Personal Loan Can You Get? What Credit Score Do You Need? Personal Loan Guides How to Get Pre-Approved for a Loan How to Apply for a Personal Loan Balance Transfers vs. Personal Loans All Personal Loan Articles About Us About Us Knowledge Personal Finance Guides Market Research & Insights 2026 Award Winners All Motley Fool Money Articles Motley Fool Money About Motley Fool Money How We Make Money Editorial Integrity Our Rating Methodology The Motley Fool The Motley Fool Stock Market News Motley Fool Premium Services Motley Fool Money Podcast Search For Motley Fool Money Credit Cards Best Wells Fargo Credit Cards Wells Fargo Reflect® Card Review: Great for Paying Off Debt, but Not for Rewards Review Updated March 12, 2026 Author: Ryan Wilcox Ryan Wilcox Full-Time Personal Finance Writer Ryan Wilcox is a full-time Personal Finance Writer at Motley Fool Money, covering credit cards, bank accounts, investing, auto insurance, and other personal finance topics. Ryan has been writing about credit cards and savings since 2022. Before joining Motley Fool Money, he was a full-time writer at The Points Guy, where he focused on maximizing credit card rewards and travel strategies. He holds a bachelor’s degree in English and American History from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where he also spent four years reporting for The Daily Tar Heel. With a background in both journalism and consumer finance, he brings a clear and thoughtful voice to money topics. Outside of work, Ryan is likely reading, writing, or updating his Letterboxd account. See Full Bio Many or all of the products here are from our partners that compensate us. It’s how we make money. But our editorial integrity ensures that our product ratings are not influenced by compensation. Credit Cards Guides Best Wells Fargo Credit Cards Best 0% Intro APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Wells Fargo Credit Card Applications: Rules, Requirements, and Tips Wells Fargo Active Cash® Card Review Table of Contents Wells Fargo Reflect® Card Details Our Credit Card Methodology What I Like About the Wells Fargo Reflect® Card Compare Other Credit Cards Downsides to Consider How to Apply for the Wells Fargo Reflect® Card FAQs The Wells Fargo Reflect® Card ( rates and fees ) is designed for people who want some breathing room from interest -- whether that means paying down debt or financing a larger purchase. It's one of the most competitive 0% intro APR cards you'll find, which can make a real difference if you're trying to get ahead. I've been a Wells Fargo banking customer and cardholder for years, and I've always appreciated how seamless it is to manage payments right from my account. It makes staying on top of debt that much easier. The Wells Fargo Reflect® Card doesn't pile on extras like rewards, but if your goal is to stop interest in its tracks, it's a slam dunk. In this review, I'll walk through what makes it stand out, and what to consider before applying. Apply Now for Wells Fargo Reflect® Card On Wells Fargo's Secure Website . Rates & Fees 2026 Award Winner Wells Fargo Reflect® Card Apply Now for Wells Fargo Reflect® Card On Wells Fargo's Secure Website . Rates & Fees 5.00/5 Our ratings are based on a 5 star scale. 5 stars equals Best. 4 stars equals Excellent. 3 stars equals Good. 2 stars equals Fair. 1 star equals Poor. We want your money to work harder for you. Which is why our ratings are biased toward offers that deliver versatility while cutting out-of-pocket costs. = Best = Excellent = Good = Fair = Poor 5.00/5 Our ratings are based on a 5 star scale. 5 stars equals Best. 4 stars equals Excellent. 3 stars equals Good. 2 stars equals Fair. 1 star equals Poor. We want your money to work harder for you. Which is why our ratings are biased toward offers that deliver versatility while cutting out-of-pocket costs. = Best = Excellent = Good = Fair = Poor Credit Score: Falling within this credit range does not guarantee approval by the issuer. An application must be submitted to the issuer for a potential approval decision. There are different types of credit scores and creditors use a variety of credit scores to make lending decisions. Recommended Credit Score required for this offer is: Good/Excellent (670-850) Poor Fair Good Excellent 300-579 580-669 670-739 740-850 Apply Now for Wells Fargo Reflect® Card On Wells Fargo's Secure Website . Rates & Fees Credit Score Falling within this credit range does not guarantee approval by the issuer. An application must be submitted to the issuer for a potential approval decision. There are different types of credit scores and creditors use a variety of credit scores to make lending decisions. Good/Excellent (670-850) Intro APR 0% intro APR for 21 months from account opening on purchases and qualifying balance transfers Purchases: 0% intro APR for 21 months from account opening on purchases Balance Transfers: 0% intro APR for 21 months from account opening on qualifying balance transfers Regular APR 17.49%, 23.99%, or 28.24% Variable APR Rewards N/A Annual Fee $0 Welcome Offer N/A Bottom Line This no-frills card is a solid choice if your priority is to avoid credit card interest for as long as possible. It offers an incredible 0% intro APR for 21 months from account opening on purchases and qualifying balance transfers (17.49%, 23.99%, or 28.24% Variable APR after). The balance transfer fee (5%; $5 min.) is higher than some cards, but if you want an equally long intro APR on purchases and balance transfers, this card is hard to beat. Pros/Cons Long 0% intro APR offer No annual fee Cellphone protection Balance transfer fee Foreign transaction fee No rewards program Card Details Apply Now to take advantage of this offer and learn more about product features, terms and conditions. 0% intro APR for 21 months from account opening on purchases and qualifying balance transfers. 17.49%, 23.99%, or 28.24% variable APR thereafter; balance transfers made within 120 days qualify for the intro rate, BT fee of 5%, min: $5. $0 annual fee. Up to $600 of cell phone protection against damage or theft. Subject to a $25 deductible. Through My Wells Fargo Deals, you can get access to personalized deals from a variety of merchants. It's an easy way to earn cash back as an account credit when you shop, dine, or enjoy an experience simply by using an eligible Wells Fargo credit card. What I like about the Wells Fargo Reflect Card Long 0% intro APR period If you're in an uphill battle against a mountain of debt, the Wells Fargo Reflect® Card is absolutely a card to consider. The biggest benefit of the card is 0% intro APR for 21 months from account opening on purchases and qualifying balance transfers (a go-to 17.49%, 23.99%, or 28.24% Variable APR applies after the intro period). That's one of the longest 0% APR periods you'll find. That means you'll have nearly two years to pay off your balance without incurring interest. When you're looking to get out from under debt, this card is hard to beat. $0 annual fee The Wells Fargo Reflect® Card doesn't charge an annual fee, which makes it easier to keep in your wallet without worrying about extra costs. For those who want to build their credit history or, like me, prefer holding onto a top credit card long term, this is a great perk. Keeping the card open can also positively impact your credit score by increasing the length of your credit history. Cellphone protection Another nice perk of the Wells Fargo Reflect® Card is cellphone protection . If you pay your monthly cellphone bill using the card, you'll be eligible for up to $600 in coverage for theft or damage to your phone. This benefit can be used up to two times a year and is subject to a small deductible. I've never had to use it, but as a Wells Fargo cardholder I've always loved the idea of this perk -- especially as a frequent phone-dropper and generally clumsy person. Credit card comparison We recommend comparing options to ensure the card you're selecting is the best fit for you. To make your search easier, here's a short list of standout credit cards. Offer Our Rating Welcome Offer Rewards Program APR Learn More Wells Fargo Reflect® Card Apply Now for Wells Fargo Reflect® Card On Wells Fargo's Secure Website . Rates & Fees 5.00/5 Our ratings are based on a 5 star scale. 5 stars equals Best. 4 stars equals Excellent. 3 stars equals Good. 2 stars equals Fair. 1 star equals Poor. We want your money to work harder for you. Which is why our ratings are biased toward offers that deliver versatility while cutting out-of-pocket costs. = Best = Excellent = Good = Fair = Poor Best for long 0% intro APR N/A N/A Intro: 0% intro APR for 21 months from account opening on purchases and qualifying balance transfers Purchases: 0% intro APR for 21 months from account opening on purchases Balance Transfers: 0% intro APR for 21 months from account opening on qualifying balance transfers Regular: 17.49%, 23.99%, or 28.24% Variable APR Apply Now for Wells Fargo Reflect® Card On Wells Fargo's Secure Website . Rates & Fees Chase Freedom Unlimited® Apply Now for Chase Freedom Unlimited® On Chase's Secure Website . Rates & Fees 4.80/5 Our ratings are based on a 5 star scale. 5 stars equals Best. 4 stars equals Excellent. 3 stars equals Good. 2 stars equals Fair. 1 star equals Poor. We want your money to work harder for you. Which is why our ratings are biased toward offers that deliver versatility while cutting out-of-pocket costs. = Best = Excellent = Good = Fair = Poor Best for cash back Earn $200 cash back Earn a $200 Bonus after you spend $500 on purchases in your first 3 months from account opening 1.5% - 5% cash back Enjoy 5% cash back on travel purchased through Chase Travel℠, our premier rewards program that lets you redeem rewards for cash back, travel, gift cards and more; 3% cash back on drugstore purchases and dining at restaurants, including takeout and eligible delivery service, and 1.5% on all other purchases Intro: 0% Intro APR on Purchases and Balance Transfers for 15 months Purchases: 0% Intro APR on Purchases, 15 months Balance Transfers: 0% Intro APR on Balance Transfers, 15 months Regular: 18.24% - 27.74% Variable Apply Now for Chase Freedom Unlimited® On Chase's Secure Website . Rates & Fees Bank of America® Travel Rewards credit card Apply Now for Bank of America® Travel Rewards credit card On Bank of America's Secure Website . 4.70/5 Our ratings are based on a 5 star scale. 5 stars equals Best. 4 stars equals Excellent. 3 stars equals Good. 2 stars equals Fair. 1 star equals Poor. We want your money to work harder for you. Which is why our ratings are biased toward offers that deliver versatility while cutting out-of-pocket costs. = Best = Excellent = Good = Fair = Poor Best for unlimited rewards on purchases 25,000 points (worth $250 travel credit) 25,000 online bonus points after you make at least $1,000 in purchases in the first 90 days of account opening - that can be a $250 statement credit toward travel purchases 1.5-3 points per dollar Earn unlimited 1.5 points per $1 spent on everyday purchases, with no annual fee and no foreign transaction fees and your points don't expire as long as your account remains open. Earn 3 points per $1 spent on travel purchases booked through BofA Travel. Intro: 0% Intro APR for 15 billing cycles for purchases, and for any balance transfers made in the first 60 days. After the Intro APR offer ends, a Variable APR that’s currently 17.49% - 27.49% will apply. A 3% Intro balance transfer fee will apply for the first 60 days your account is open. After the Intro balance transfer fee offer ends, the fee for future balance transfers is 5%. Balance transfers may not be used to pay any account provided by Bank of America. Purchases: 0% Intro APR for 15 billing cycles for purchases Balance Transfers: 0% Intro APR for 15 billing cycles for any balance transfers made in the first 60 days Regular: 17.49% - 27.49% (Variable) Apply Now for Bank of America® Travel Rewards credit card On Bank of America's Secure Website . How we rate 0% APR credit cards These cards are designed for people looking to pay off a large purchase or transfer a balance — so our ratings emphasize interest-free periods, fee structures, and how much time you really get to pay things down. Our highest-rated 0% APR cards have: Extended intro APR periods on purchases or balance transfers Low or waived balance transfer fees Solid ongoing value beyond the intro period, like no annual fee Top-of-market features that stand out from competitors We don’t penalize cards for a lack of long-term rewards here – this category is all about interest savings, and our ratings reflect that. We combine these factors with an evaluation of brand reputation and customer satisfaction to ensure you're getting the best high limit card recommendations. Our aim is to maintain a balanced best-of list featuring top-scoring high limit credit cards from reputable brands. 'Best for' category selections on this page are determined by our editors, and a single card may be recognized in multiple categories. Ordering within lists is influenced by advertiser compensation, including featured placements at the top of a given list, but our product recommendations are NEVER influenced by advertisers. Learn more about how Motley Fool Money rates credit cards. How we rate 0% APR credit cards These cards are designed for people looking to pay off a large purchase or transfer a balance — so our ratings emphasize interest-free periods, fee structures, and how much time you really get to pay things down. Our highest-rated 0% APR cards have: Extended intro APR periods on purchases or balance transfers Low or waived balance transfer fees Solid ongoing value beyond the intro period, like no annual fee Top-of-market features that stand out from competitors We don’t penalize cards for a lack of long-term rewards here – this category is all about interest savings, and our ratings reflect that. We combine these factors with an evaluation of brand reputation and customer satisfaction to ensure you're getting the best high limit card recommendations. Our aim is to maintain a balanced best-of list featuring top-scoring high limit credit cards from reputable brands. 'Best for' category selections on this page are determined by our editors, and a single card may be recognized in multiple categories. Ordering within lists is influenced by advertiser compensation, including featured placements at the top of a given list, but our product recommendations are NEVER influenced by advertisers. Learn more about how Motley Fool Money rates credit cards. Downsides to consider No ongoing rewards Once the 0% intro APR offer expires, the Wells Fargo Reflect® Card offers no ongoing rewards or incentives. That means if you're looking for a card that offers long-term perks like cash back or travel rewards, this card isn't the best option. A strong alternative would be the Wells Fargo Active Cash® Card ( rates and fees ), which offers straightforward 2% cash rewards on purchases for a $0 annual fee -- currently my favorite card in my wallet. Balance transfer fee While the Wells Fargo Reflect® Card is among the longest 0% intro APR period cards, there's also the balance transfer fee to consider. The card charges a fee of 5%, min: $5, which can be costly if you're transferring a large balance. For example, transferring a balance of $10,000 to this card would let you pay it off at 0% interest (within the intro period) -- but you would have to pay a $500 transfer fee. You'll have to run the numbers to see if eating the balance transfer fee is actually cheaper than paying interest. If you won't take full advantage of the 0% intro APR for 21 months from account opening on qualifying balance transfers (then 17.49%, 23.99%, or 28.24% Variable APR) to pay off your balance, it might be worth considering another card with a lower balance transfer fee. Foreign transaction fees The Wells Fargo Reflect® Card also charges a 3% foreign transaction fee, which means you'll pay extra for purchases made outside of the U.S. If you plan to travel abroad and want to avoid fees, consider one of our favorite travel credit cards . How to apply for the Wells Fargo Reflect Card Applying for the Wells Fargo Reflect® Card is easy. Here's what to do: You can start the application process right here from this page . Provide your personal and financial details, including your name, income, address, and Social Security number. Review the terms and conditions, and submit your application. Wait for approval, then start enjoying the benefits of your new card. Final thoughts If you're looking for a card with ongoing rewards or perks after the introductory period ends, the Wells Fargo Reflect® Card might not be the best fit. Otherwise, the card is a strong choice for those looking to pay off debt or finance a large purchase as one of the most competitive 0% intro APR cards. Ready to make a dent in your debt? Apply for the Wells Fargo Reflect® Card today -- awarded Motley Fool Money's Best 0% Intro APR Card of 2026. Review sources https://creditcards.wellsfargo.com/reflect-visa-credit-card/ https://creditcards.wellsfargo.com/active-cash-credit-card/ FAQs Does the Wells Fargo Reflect Card charge an annual fee? No, the Wells Fargo Reflect® Card has a $0 annual fee. How long is the 0% intro APR period? The card offers 0% intro APR for 21 months from account opening on qualifying balance transfers and purchases. Does the Wells Fargo Reflect Card offer rewards? No, the card does not offer any rewards. Does the card have any fees? The Wells Fargo Reflect® Card charges a balance transfer fee of 5%, min: $5. There's also a 3% foreign transaction fee. Other fees for things like cash advances and late payments may also apply. Check the card's terms for details. Share This Page We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers. Motley Fool Money does not cover all offers on the market. Motley Fool Money is 100% owned and operated by The Motley Fool. Our knowledgeable team of personal finance editors and analysts are employed by The Motley Fool and held to the same set of publishing standards and editorial integrity while maintaining professional separation from the analysts and editors on other Motley Fool brands. Terms may apply to offers listed on this page. Motley Fool Stock Disclosures Wells Fargo is an advertising partner of Motley Fool Money. Citigroup is an advertising partner of Motley Fool Money. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Target and Visa. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy . The Motley Fool owns shares of and recommends Visa. Join 35,000+ Americans getting smarter with their money -- one email at a time Get expert advice, actionable strategies, and exclusive offers that help you save more and spend with confidence. Sign Up By submitting your email address, you consent to us sending you money tips along with products and services that we think might interest you. You can unsubscribe at any time. Please read our Privacy Statement and Terms & Conditions . Motley Fool Money is a Motley Fool service that rates and reviews essential products for your everyday money matters. Copyright © 2018 - 2026 Motley Fool Money. All rights reserved. About Motley Fool Money About Us Contact Us Newsroom How We Make Money Editorial Integrity Ratings Methodology RSS Feed About The Motley Fool Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Terms and Conditions Copyright, Trademark and Patent Information Do Not Sell My Personal Information Learn Credit Cards Banking Brokerage Cryptocurrency Mortgages Insurance Loans Recent Articles Back to The Motley Fool