Companies plan to hide airlines' restrictive 'basic' business fares Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Airlines Companies scoff at airlines' cheapest business class tickets. 'The real value is flexibility' Published Fri, Aug 7 2026 8:00 AM EDT Updated Fri, Aug 7 2026 11:13 AM EDT Leslie Josephs @lesliejosephs WATCH LIVE Key Points Companies are weighing what to do with airlines' new, restrictive business- and premium-economy tickets. Many companies blocked their corporate travelers from booking restrictive basic economy tickets about a decade ago so employees wouldn't get stuck without the ability to change their flights. Restrictive tickets could cost companies more money later on because business trips can quickly change. In this article DAL UAL Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT United Airlines Polaris lounge in Chicago United Airlines CHICAGO — No advanced seat selection, lounge access or flight changes included with a C-suite executive's business-class ticket? Absolutely not, some companies say. Delta Air Lines joined United Airlines last month in launching stripped-down business-class fares for certain flights, taking the same approach they used to carve up coach class to their more expensive cabins as carriers get customers to pay more for perks in the sky. That's a new headache for companies' business travel managers. AerSale — which leases aircraft and engines and offers maintenance and other services — likely won't block basic premium options altogether for its hundreds of traveling employees. But those tickets would be impractical for many of its workers, said Jackie Carlon, the Doral, Florida-based company's senior vice president of marketing and communications. "The real value is flexibility," Carlon said. "Paying a bit more, it's not necessarily a cost to us — it's insurance." What's included with basic business — and what's not With the new fares, the cheapest option for long-haul international flights won't come with things like access to an airport lounge or the ability to pick a seat for free in advance. Perhaps most important for business travel, no changes are allowed without paying a fee on top of a difference in fare. Delta said change fees for basic business class could range from none at all up to $400, depending on the route, and from $99 to as much as $500 for cancellations. Because work trips can change on a dime, a restrictive ticket in business class can cost a company even more if travelers have to buy a whole new flight. Only a small proportion of a corporation's business travelers usually fly in top-tier cabins, but the higher fares could further drive up travel costs. The difference in fares, meanwhile, could be several hundred dollars to close to $1,000, if not more. On United, for example, the least expensive fare in the airlines' lie-flat pod Polaris cabin doesn't come with access to the Polaris business-class airport lounge, which features a bar, sit-down dining, a rest area, showers and other amenities. The traveler also can't pick a seat in advance without paying a fee and no changes are allowed. Travelers can cancel the flight with a fee. United doesn't disclose its fees for the new fares, and a spokeswoman said the amounts vary. For a flight going from Newark, New Jersey, to London Heathrow on Oct. 1 and returning Oct. 8, the "base" Polaris ticket was going for $4,490, while the standard fare was $4,890, and it was $5,390 for a flexible, refundable ticket. Airlines say it gives customers more of a choice. "We support our corporate travel partners by giving them full control over which fare products are available to their business travelers based on their own policies and business objectives," Delta said in a statement. "We continue to see strong demand for premium travel." Corporate considerations Dane Molter, senior vice president at Navan Group Travel Marketplace , which reported $9.1 billion in gross booking volume in the 12 months ended Jan. 31, said clients who use the platform are seeking more detailed policy controls that could determine which fare an employee books for a trip. "Travel managers are asking a sensible question: Does the lower upfront fare still represent good value if it lacks flexibility, seat selection, lounge access or other benefits their travelers expect?" he said in a statement. Read more about airline class divides American Airlines will stop upgrading elite flyers to business from coach on long domestic flights United Airlines’ new upsell: Keeping other travelers out of the middle seat Delta launches ‘basic business’ fares without lounge access, seat selection Basic business class is here with new, stripped-down United Polaris fares United Airlines is paring back rewards for travelers who don’t have its credit card American Airlines no longer lets basic economy flyers earn miles Companies to airlines: We don’t want your cheapest fares Two travel managers at public companies at the Global Business Travel Association's annual convention in Chicago said they would likely seek to block the fares altogether. They spoke on the condition of anonymity because they weren't authorized to talk about their employers' travel spending, While airlines like Germany's Lufthansa and Etihad Airways, based in the United Arab Emirates, have already offered stripped-down basic business-class fares, it's still early days for these types of tickets. The divisions at the front of the plane come as airfare is on the rise across the board this year. Globally, airfare is set to rise close to 5% this year from last to an average of $756 for a roundtrip flight, with premium increasing even more: 9.5% to $4,488, the Global Business Travel Association forecast this week at its annual convention. watch now VIDEO 4:38 04:38 Why airfare is so high and why it'll likely stay that way Consumer & Retail Digital Original Video John Bukowski, vice president of global marketplace experience, product and engineering at corporate travel and expense giant American Express Global Business Travel , which had $36.3 billion in bookings in 2025, told CNBC earlier this week that he hasn't seen a lot of clients seeking to block the fares so far, like they have with basic economy tickets. Companies about a decade ago started blocking their travelers from booking basic economy fares , which have become even more restrictive, including in some cases by lowering the frequent flyer miles a traveler earns or eliminating that option altogether. Airline executives have frequently measured the success of basic economy by how many travelers paid up to avoid it . Scott Laurence, a partner at Oliver Wyman's transportation practice who previously worked at JetBlue Airways and American Airlines , said the cheaper, basic business or other premium fares could be attractive to a more price-sensitive small or medium-sized company, but that the options could become complicated. American doesn't offer the basic business, or basic premium economy fares, which could also add confusion if another carrier that does appears cheaper at first glance. "The travel managers are going to value some level of simplicity and making sure things work with their expense system and their policy," he said. Laurence added that travel managers are likely to collect a lot of feedback from their customers, especially if they're used to lounge access at the end of a long-haul flight or they're earning fewer miles. But "there's an interest in offering a lower price point," he said. "It also is ... frankly, about driving buy up." Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by