Poo, parking and poor pitching - the Lake District's summer battles - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions Cumbria Poo, parking and poor pitching - the Lake District's summer battles Image source, United Utilities Image caption, Lake District authorities say litter, fly-camping and irresponsible behaviour are big problems over the summer months By Federica Bedendo North East and Cumbria Published 2 August 2026 Millions of people visit the Lake District every year, but not all of them abide by the Countryside Code's plea to "leave no trace". It means for enforcement officers and volunteers, summer is often marked by irresponsible parking, inconsiderate camping and even human waste - which doesn't quite have the same ring to it as the Summer of Love. "Fifty-plus members of the public engaged with, 10 overnight campers spoken to, eight bags of rubbish collected and they had the joy of seeing one man using a bush as his toilet," reads out Judith Derbyshire, a Westmorland and Furness councillor. It is an extract from a report by patrol officers responsible for tackling anti-social behaviour, who were out in the Coniston area one weekend in July. "I'm going to lower the standard of the conversation here but the issue is to do with human poo," says Derbyshire, although she might have used slightly more colourful language. She is responsible for community safety at the Liberal Democrat-led council and says since Covid there has been a surge in visitors who arrive without plans for accommodation, meaning fly-camping is rife. Fly-camping takes place away from designated camp sites and without landowners' permission. "Don't feel you can just come up, park up on a lay-by and then go and put a tent up down by the lake shore - you shouldn't be doing that," she says. Image caption, Volunteer litter pickers are often left to deal with the aftermath of fly-camping It is not just about the litter. Derbyshire says people are also chopping down branches and trees to light fires, causing damage to the environment. "There's a tree down at Ullswater, as you're driving down the A592. "It's a very large oak tree and somebody fairly recently has put a bonfire up the hollow inside it and, sorry, it's a lovely, big, old oak tree and I want it to be there in a long time to come." Image source, United Utilities Image caption, Problems include people chopping down trees to light fires Westmorland and Furness Council and Cumberland Council are responsible for looking after parts of the Unesco World Heritage Site. Together with Cumbria Police, they can enforce Public Spaces Protection Orders (PSPOs), which help tackle anti-social behaviour. It means in areas covered by a PSPO they have extra powers, such as making someone leave the site or issuing a fine. Derbyshire says Westmorland and Furness officers have only issued eight tickets so far this summer, as enforcement is seen as a last resort. Instead, the authority tries to "engage, educate and encourage". "If we've perhaps gone out and seen a group in the evening and then gone back in the morning and they're not tidying up, they've done damage and they've said they weren't going to have a bonfire and they obviously have and it's still burning, then that gets to the enforcement stage," she says. Image source, Westmorland and Furness Council Image caption, Councillor Judith Derbyshire says officers are often left to deal with the mess from fly-campers Enforcement is made difficult by the fact the council has "very few" officers and there is no round-the-clock response service, Derbyshire says. "Putting it bluntly, we are going to have strong cutbacks from our funding as a local authority, we're not going to have the staff to be able to put that sort of thing in place." Fines for breaching a PSPO are currently at £100, but Derbyshire says the government is expected to issue new guidance which could see them raise to £500. For irresponsible parking, councils can issue a £50 ticket which is reduced if paid within a certain timeframe. "The problem that we've got now is that a parking ticket is not really a deterrent," says Rob Lewis, a senior manager at Cumberland Council's highways department. "If there's four or five people in a vehicle, some of them will just share the cost of that ticket and they'll take it as a parking charge - so it's almost part of the expense of the day out." He says the Labour-led council is in talks with the British Parking Association and other authorities to see if higher charges would be more beneficial in areas such as the Lake District National Park. At busy times, he says, buses have had to be cancelled because badly parked cars are not leaving enough room for them to pass. Image source, Nicola Millner Image caption, A tent surrounded by litter was left by Windermere last year - one example of the fly-camping the area sees Local social media pages often show cars parked in front of farm gates, passing places and even private fields. Were there to be a medical emergency or a fire, the stakes would be even higher, Lewis says. "We do try and educate the visitors before they come to say where it is appropriate to park and where it isn't appropriate to park." To try and ease congestion on the narrow country roads, shuttle buses serve the most popular areas including Buttermere and the Wasdale Valley, and many operators offer free travel to under-16s during the summer. While Cumberland Council has a team of 25 officers issuing parking tickets, they are spread across the whole authority area, from Millom to Carlisle. Lewis says there is more focus on the Lake District at busy times, but not all bad parking can be enforced by the council. "It's not that easy, we cannot issue [tickets] unless there's a restriction in place or unless there's a yellow line down there, or it's part of a disc zone, for example." Image source, Wasdale Action Group/A Wasdale Lad Image caption, Social media pages often share images of parking problems in the Lake District He says problem areas can be flagged to the council, but restrictions may take up to a year to come into force, due to the length of time it takes to go through the process and consult with affected residents. The police have powers to deal with certain issues, such as if a vehicle is causing an obstruction. Derbyshire says people can also contact police if they see anyone behaving in a dangerous way, such as lighting a bonfire that is likely to spread to a large area. "We're not encouraging people to go and approach people, but more to feed the information back to us," she says. Image source, Nicola Millner Image caption, Litter is a blight on beauty spots around the lakes Descriptions of people involved and any vehicle registrations would help them track offenders down, Derbyshire says. She believes working together with residents, visitors and bodies such as the National Trust and other landowners is key to getting the situation under control. "We want people to come to Lake District and it's good that there's a wider range of people coming here, it's just that we need to get them educated so they know what they can do and what they can't do." Follow BBC Cumbria on X , external , Facebook , external , Nextdoor and Instagram , external and listen to Radio Cumbria on BBC Sounds. Get in touch Do you have a story suggestion for BBC Cumbria? Contact form Contact form Related topics Cumbria Litter Parking Westmorland and Furness Council More on this topic Tourist chiefs continue 'be kind' influencer drive Published 31 July Beauty spot 'forever fighting battle' with visitors Published 6 July 'Dog poo bags hang like Christmas decorations' Published 15 August 2025 Destructive 'fly campers' threatened with fines Published 23 April 2025 Related internet links Westmorland and Furness Council Cumberland Council From other local news sites New manager appointed for Carlisle business improvement district External News and Star Government set to change North Cumbria's NHS boundaries External Whitehaven News Troy Batchelor ready for Workington Comets return despite Foxes release External Cumbria Crack Workington hosts thrilling round of British Youth Championships External Cumbria Crack Memories of the Palace and the golden age of cinema in Carlisle External News and Star Man in 50s rushed to hospital following two-vehicle crash on A590 in Barrow External North West Evening Mail Information about BBC links to other news sites The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:38 Wildfire raging in Canada's British Columbia. 00:00:38, play video Wildfire raging in Canada's British Columbia 1:02 Child among three killed in Russian missile attacks near Kyiv. 00:01:02, play video Child among three killed in Russian missile attacks near Kyiv 0:28 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update. 00:00:28, play video 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update 0:34 Timelapse shows mass balloon ascent in Bristol. 00:00:34, play video Timelapse shows mass balloon ascent in Bristol 1:17 The tech that could map every tree on earth. 00:01:17, play video The tech that could map every tree on earth 0:59 Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 00:00:59, play video Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 1:07 Riding England's longest zip wire. 00:01:07, play video Riding England's longest zip wire 1:21 How many different cubes can you make? 00:01:21, play video How many different cubes can you make? 2:01 Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape. 00:02:01, play video Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape 1:02 Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter. 00:01:02, play video Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter 1:17 What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:17, play video What we know about the Thailand school shooting 0:48 Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 00:00:48, play video Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 0:53 Are you hung up on hangers? 00:00:53, play video Are you hung up on hangers? 0:52 Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 00:00:52, play video Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 0:31 The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 00:00:31, play video The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 0:43 Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan. 00:00:43, play video Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan 0:33 Moment raiders drive car into service station. 00:00:33, play video Moment raiders drive car into service station 1:11 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 00:01:11, play video 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 0:39 How much rain will end the drought? 00:00:39, play video How much rain will end the drought? Top stories Simon Levy victims urged to come forward as police accused of 'litany of failures' Published 10 hours ago Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands Published 15 hours ago The phone book that led us to Assad's spy chief in hiding Published 22 hours ago More to explore I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock Pokémon hobby takes brothers to world championships 'We had to flee with just my daughter's clothes and dolls' Obesity rates have doubled in England since 1993 - what's going on? The 101-year-old who created a dolls' house museum with her childhood toys Artist's 'anger and frustration' with internet copycats The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC With great power comes great responsibility She's not a bad girl anymore, wink wink wink wink Can a test tell you what's living inside your gut? How much discipline is too much in school? Most read 1 Strictly dancers Ola and James Jordan separate after 23 years of marriage 2 Hormuz talks positive, Oman says, as Iran warns deal would not open strait 3 I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock 4 He's been frozen on Everest for 30 years, now 'Green Boots' may finally be coming home 5 Sturgeon hasn't spoken to Murrell since he was jailed for embezzling SNP funds 6 Digital cameras and wired earphones are back - and 'a bit more real' 7 Madonna pays tribute to 'genius, otherworldly' producer William Orbit 8 Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands 9 Simon Levy victims urged to come forward as police accused of 'litany of failures' 10 How a former GB Olympian curbed his porn problem - and the signs and steps to recovery BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.