FDA approves Moderna flu shot made with mRNA : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics FDA approves Moderna flu shot made with mRNA The first mRNA-based flu shot to be approved by the Food and Drug Administration will be ready for the upcoming flu season. Moderna, the vaccine's maker Health A new flu vaccine geared to older people is coming soon August 6, 2026 1:06 PM ET Rob Stein A new kind of flu vaccine made with mRNA technology will soon be available. Marco Bello/Bloomberg via Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Marco Bello/Bloomberg via Getty Images For the latest stories on the science of healthy living, subscribe to NPR's Health newsletter . The Food and Drug Administration approved Moderna's mRNA-based vaccine against seasonal influenza for people 50 and older, the company said late Wednesday . It's the first approved vaccine for flu that uses the same technology as COVID-19 shots. Health FDA weighs a new kind of flu shot based on technology RFK Jr. has questioned The vaccine is called mFLUSIVA, and Moderna says it will be available "in a few weeks" — in time for the 2026-2027 respiratory virus season in the U.S. "The FDA approval of mFLUSIVA … demonstrates the continued strength and versatility of our mRNA platform," said Stéphane Bancel, Moderna's chief executive officer, in a statement. "Flu remains a significant public health challenge, and mFLUSIVA provides an important new option for America's seniors. This approval also reflects the ongoing potential of our mRNA platform to help address important public health challenges through continued scientific innovation." Sponsor Message Company research involving more than 40,000 people found that mFLUSIVA is safe and appears to produce stronger protection than traditional flu vaccines. The FDA's decision was being closely monitored because of the Trump administration's hostility toward mRNA technology. President Trump embraced mRNA technology during his first term to produce the COVID vaccines, an achievement widely praised as a medical triumph that saved millions of lives . But the backlash against pandemic responses, including vaccine mandates, led to the vaccines and mRNA technology being vilified by some and becoming the focus of widespread misinformation. Secretary of Health and Human Services, Robert F. Kennedy Jr., a long-time vaccine critic, has repeatedly condemned the vaccines. Public Health Public health experts dismayed by RFK Jr.'s defunding of mRNA vaccine research The administration also slashed funding for mRNA vaccine research and curtailed access to the COVID vaccines. The FDA initially refused to even consider reviewing Moderna's mRNA flu shot. But the agency later relented because of backlash from the pharmaceutical industry and public health experts. The agency convened a meeting of independent outside advisers in June to consider the vaccine. That panel voted unanimously to recommend the agency approve the new shot. Many public health officials say the mRNA flu vaccine has other advantages as well. mRNA vaccines, for example, can be updated and produced much more quickly than standard vaccines. Sponsor Message Public Health Senators from both parties grilled RFK Jr. on vaccines and more That could make the vaccine more useful when a new flu strain emerges unexpectedly, which occurred last flu season. It could be especially crucial if a very new flu virus evolves, triggering a flu pandemic. "I think this is really a critical step forward in advancing influenza vaccine technology," says Michael Osterholm, an infectious disease expert at the University of Minnesota. Others agree. "The FDA is signaling openness to this platform, which has been a controversy and an issue," says Dr. Jeanne Marrazzo , chief executive officer of the Infectious Disease Society of America. "It's a really promising product that could set us up not only for improved response to a bad flu season but also to an improved response to any biological threats." But critics are disappointed by the decision. "I really believe that this technology is just too new," says Dr. Brian Hooker , the chief medical officer at Children's Health Defense, an anti-vaccine group once headed by Kennedy. "There has not been the adequate level of study of the implications for, you know, literally everybody. I just feel like the train is leaving the station, and we're not ready yet." mRNA mRNA vaccine influenza flu vaccine Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Health An FDA decision could give us the first mRNA flu vaccine Health Key FDA committee unanimously recommends its first vaccine since 2023 Health FDA weighs a new kind of flu shot based on technology RFK Jr. has questioned Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after Education Trump administration moves to deregulate Head Start, opening door for sweeping change Health FDA committee unanimously recommends first mRNA flu vaccine More Stories From NPR Consider This from NPR Why do so many doctors and nurses avoid treating patients with addiction? Global Health This country is the latest to hit the elusive 95/95/95 HIV target Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after Health Dr. Erica Schwartz confirmed as CDC director, filling a leadership vacuum Your Health Nicotine pouches can be marketed as 'lower risk' than cigarettes. Is that dangerous? Health Black lung rates in Appalachia are high as the 1970s, with thousands of miners sick Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Middle East conflict Iran aims to ban U.S. and Israeli ships from Strait of Hormuz and charge others a toll Politics Senate Homeland Security committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress Politics The park service says Trump's arch would obstruct historic sites. Could it be moved? Education Trump administration moves to deregulate Head Start, opening door for sweeping change The Ripple Effect The keepers of the Grateful Dead's history TV Reviews 'Furious' is an unforgettable thriller, not just a 'Black Widow' remake NPR Editors' Picks Research News Sticky or slippery? Snails can change their slime to meet the moment Author Interviews Death is everywhere in the desert — it's where Claire Vaye Watkins feels most alive Sports European nations say World Cup boycott is still on, keeping FIFA's Infantino in limbo Politics Celebrity culture is one thing. For TMZ, Congress is the new 'reality show' Europe Drone with explosives found at German airport, official sees 'new quality' of threat Elections Progressives see biggest win yet in Michigan, while Trump flexes power over GOP Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices