Sen. Marsha Blackburn wins Republican primary for Tennessee governor - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Politics Sen. Marsha Blackburn wins Republican primary for Tennessee governor By Caroline Linton Caroline Linton Associate Managing Editor, Politics Caroline Linton is an associate managing editor on the political team for CBSNews.com. She has previously written for The Daily Beast, Newsweek and amNewYork. Read Full Bio Caroline Linton Updated on: August 6, 2026 / 9:41 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Sen. Marsha Blackburn won the Republican primary for Tennessee governor on Thursday, The Associated Press projects, defeating Rep. John Rose. Given Tennessee's heavy Republican lean, Blackburn is considered the favorite in the November election against Democratic nominee Jerri Green. Democrats have not won a statewide race in Tennessee since 2006. Incumbent GOP Gov. Bill Lee is prevented from running for reelection due to term limits. With about two-thirds of ballots counted, Blackburn led Rose 43.8% to 32.6%, with Rose outperforming Blackburn around his Middle Tennessee House district, according to results compiled by the AP. Rose was the first candidate to jump into the primary race last year, followed by Blackburn and then state Rep. Monty Fritts. Blackburn had early momentum in the race, although the single independent poll closer to primary day showed a closer race. Rose pumped $13 million of his own money into the race, including $4.5 million in the last few weeks. Blackburn raised a total of $10.8 million. All three candidates tried to paint themselves as the most conservative candidate in the race. Although President Trump did not endorse in this race, Blackburn had featured him heavily in her announcement video. But Rose and Fritts attempted to cast Blackburn as not sufficiently aligned with Mr. Trump, noting that she said she voted to certify the 2020 election results. Rose also touted his support in the House for Mr. Trump's SAVE America Act, which has not been brought to the Senate floor for debate, although Blackburn has said she supports it. 2026 Midterm Elections More Progressive Abdul El-Sayed projected to win Michigan Democratic Senate primary Abdul El-Sayed says "there's a lot of healing to do" after Senate primary Rep. Chuck Edwards drops reelection bid after sexual harassment allegations House Democrats targeting 12 new GOP districts, including Lauren Boebert's seat Democratic Rep. Gluesenkamp Perez and Trump-backed Republican advance in Washington primary Go deeper with The Free Press Could a Libertarian Tip the Texas Senate Race? Masculinity Is the First Battleground of the Texas Senate Race © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Takeaways from El-Sayed's win in Michigan Takeaways from El-Sayed's win in Michigan, other primary races 08:18 Takeaways from El-Sayed's win in Michigan, other primary races (08:18) Tennessee voters to choose gubernatorial nominees, and more races to watch today Rick Brattin wins Republican primary for Missouri seat redrawn to favor GOP Democratic Rep. Gluesenkamp Perez and Trump-backed Republican advance in Washington primary Could a Libertarian Tip the Texas Senate Race? Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue