Perez Hilton taken to hospital after livestreaming acts of self-harm, officials say - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Cyberattacks World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War Cyberattacks World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News U.S. Perez Hilton taken to hospital after livestreaming acts of self-harm, officials say By Mark Osborne Updated on: August 5, 2026 / 11:36 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Celebrity gossip journalist Perez Hilton was taken to a hospital in Miami on Tuesday night after livestreaming "acts of self-harm" on social media, police said. The Miami-Dade Sheriff's Office said it received multiple calls about the incident and responded to the scene. Deputies spoke to family members and learned Hilton was alone inside the home. In the TikTok livestream, which has since been taken down, Hilton appears to be bloodied and in a distressed mental state. Hilton, whose real name is Mario Lavandeira, was taken to a local hospital for medical attention, law enforcement said. "The Miami-Dade Sheriff's Office Crisis Response Unit and Licensed Mental Health Professionals are also on scene providing support and resources to the individual's family," the sheriff's office said. In a statement posted to his website Wednesday evening, his family said it was "able to confirm that Perez is able to communicate, which has given our family hope." In an earlier statement, the family said it could "confirm that Perez is receiving medical care, and our family's focus right now is on his well-being. We kindly ask that you respect Perez's privacy, as well as the privacy of his family, during this difficult time." Hilton, 48, grew to prominence in the 2000s when he started a controversial celebrity blog. The journalist has courted many controversies over the years for his unfiltered take on celebrity life, not hesitating to criticize those celebrities who he disliked. TikTok said the video was flagged by its automated moderation system and sent to its team for review, but an error by a moderator caused a delay in its removal. The steam remained up for about 15 minutes, according to TikTok. The company said it alerted law enforcement immediately and banned the account. If you or someone you know is in emotional distress or a suicidal crisis, you can reach the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline by calling or texting 988. You can also chat with the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline here . For more information about mental health care resources and support , The National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) HelpLine can be reached Monday through Friday, 10 a.m.–10 p.m. ET, at 1-800-950-NAMI (6264) or email info@nami.org . Celebrities More Scarlett Johansson, skin care mogul Actor Jared Leto accused of criminal sexual conduct by 4 women William Shatner and daughter Melanie recall fighting Stage 4 cancer together The adventurous life of supermodel Lauren Hutton Malcolm-Jamal Warner's widow on actor's death: "My body went through shock" Go deeper with The Free Press How Instagram Broke Its Promise to Protect Teens EXCLUSIVE: The Nuns Suing New York to Keep Caring for the Dying In: Miami © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Surveillance video shows first responders rush to Perez Hilton’s Miami home Surveillance video shows first responders rush to Perez Hilton’s Miami home 03:03 Surveillance video shows first responders rush to Perez Hilton’s Miami home (03:03) Senate confirms Dr. Erica Schwartz as CDC director Serviceman kills 3 civilians, 1 soldier in Russian-held Crimea Democratic Rep. Gluesenkamp Perez and Trump-backed Republican advance in Washington primary How Instagram Broke Its Promise to Protect Teens Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue