Michael Jordan’s 1998 NBA Finals sneakers sell for a record $2.2 million | CNN Ad Feedback CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. Close Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video More Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Watch Listen Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Follow CNN Style Download the CNN App US Crime & Justice Immigration Education Transportation Race & Identity World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics Elections 2026 Trump Facts First CNN Polls Redistricting Tracker Epstein Files Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay Videos Sports NFL NBA MLB WNBA Golf Soccer Tennis Motorsport College Sports Olympics Bleacher Report Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Watch Featured Shows & Films Network TV Clips CNN Headlines Shows A-Z CNN 10 CNN TV Schedule Listen All There Is with Anderson Cooper Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish Terms of Service with Clare Duffy CNN 5 Things All CNN Podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Photo Shuffle Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Subscribe Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Download the CNN App Style Luxury 3 min read Michael Jordan’s 1998 NBA Finals sneakers sell for a record $2.2 million Jacqui Palumbo PUBLISHED Apr 11, 2023, 11:17 PM ET From Sotheby's People in sports Michael Jordan Basketball See all topics Facebook Tweet Email Link Threads Link Copied! Follow Editor’s Note: This story was updated with the final sale price and other details following the auction. In 1998, Michael Jordan laced up a pair of his iconic black and red Air Jordan 13s to bring home a Bulls victory during Game 2 of his final NBA championship — and now they are the most expensive sneakers ever to sell at auction. The game-winning sneakers sold for $2.2 million at Sotheby’s in New York on Tuesday, smashing the sneaker auction record of $1.47 million, set in 2021 by a pair of Nike Air Ships that Jordan wore earlier in his career. Related article Dennis Rodman at a book signing for "Bad as I Wanna Be," in New York City Evan Agostini/Liaison/Hulton Archive/Getty Images Remember when Dennis Rodman put on a wedding dress and claimed to marry himself? The sale arrives during “Jordan Year” — a reference to the NBA star player’s iconic jersey number 23. In January, Air Jordan partnered with Sotheby’s to auction off 13 pairs of retro sneakers that were designed in memory of The Notorious B.I.G. All lots outsold their high estimates of $5,000 by multiples, with the highest selling for more than $32,000. Last year, Jordan’s Game 1 jersey, also from the 1998 finals, became the most expensive item of worn sports memorabilia to sell at auction when it fetched $10.1 million at a Sotheby’s sale. Jordan’s farewell run with the Chicago Bulls is often referred to as “The Last Dance,” after the title of an ESPN and Netflix documentary that chronicled the season. Jordan announced his (second) retirement weeks before the finals, leading to the six-game series against the Utah Jazz becoming the most-watched in NBA history, based on Nielsen TV ratings. (Jordan would later return from 2001 to 2003 to play with the Washington Wizards, but did not win another championship). Michael Jordan pictured wearing the record-breaking sneakers during the NBA Finals at the Delta Center in Salt Lake City, Utah, on June 05, 1998. Jeff Haynes/AFP/Getty Images/File “Michael Jordan game-worn sports memorabilia has proven time and time again to be the most elite and coveted items on the market,” said Brahm Wachter, Sotheby’s head of streetwear and modern collectables, in a press release prior to the sale. “However, items from his ‘Last Dance’ season are of a greater scale and magnitude as seen with our record-breaking sale of his Game 1 jersey in 2022.” The pair of sneakers sold Tuesday were worn during Game 2, in Salt Lake City, which the Bulls won 93-88 after losing Game 1, with Jordan scoring 37 points. They are the last pair of black and red Air Jordan 13s that Jordan ever wore on the court for an NBA game, a press release from Sotheby’s noted. Related article Michael Caulfield/WireImage/Getty Images 13 of the best menswear looks from Oscars history Following Game 2, Jordan signed and gifted the set of worn shoes to the ball boy in the visitor’s locker room, as he was known to do, according to Sotheby’s. The Air Jordan 13 sneakers starred in a sports memorabilia sale called “Victoriam,” which featured items worn by athletes including Tom Brady, Kobe Bryant and Roger Federer. Several other Jordan items were included in the two-part auction, with a game-worn 1998 Bulls jersey and a pair of 1985 Air Jordan 1s fetching $508,000 and $127,000 respectively. Other top lots included one of Kobe Bryant’s LA Lakers shooting shirts, which sold for over $406,000, and a soccer jersey, worn by the late Pelé on his debut for the New York Cosmos in 1975, that sold fetched over $177,000. Top image: The Air Jordan 13 sneakers signed by Michael Jordan. People in sports Michael Jordan Basketball See all topics Facebook Tweet Email Link Threads Link Copied! Follow Ad Feedback Paid Content Paid Content Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Listen Watch US Crime & Justice Immigration Education Transportation Race & Identity World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics Elections 2026 Trump Facts First CNN Polls Redistricting Tracker Epstein Files Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports NFL NBA MLB WNBA Golf Soccer Tennis Motorsport College Sports Olympics Bleacher Report Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Watch Featured Shows & Films Network TV Clips CNN Headlines Shows A-Z CNN 10 CNN TV Schedule Listen All There Is with Anderson Cooper Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish Terms of Service with Clare Duffy CNN 5 Things All CNN Podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Photo Shuffle Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Subscribe Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Watch Listen Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Follow CNN Style Download the CNN app Download the CNN app Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Subscribe Newsletters Transcripts Help Center Sitemap © 2026 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Download the CNN app Scan the QR code to download the CNN app on Google Play. Download the CNN app Scan the QR code to download the CNN app from the Apple Store.