Sonam Wangchuk: Protests weakened Narendra Modi, activist tells BBC after hunger strike - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Asia China India Youth protests have weakened Modi, Indian activist who went on hunger strike tells BBC Figure caption, Youth can change things, says education activist Sonam Wangchuk By Rajini Vaidyanathan , Presenter, Newshour , Junaid Ahmed , Newshour and Phelan Chatterjee Published 3 hours ago The recent youth-led protests have weakened Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi "terribly", says leading activist Sonam Wangchuk whose hunger strike galvanised the movement. Wangchuk told the BBC that the atmosphere in the country had changed following mass demonstrations which triggered the resignation of the education minister on 25 July. Young people now have more confidence they can "change things if they want to" and feel they don't have to "take everything lying down", the 59-year-old said. The "cockroach" movement mounted one of the biggest public displays of dissent against Modi's government, which has been in power since 2014. The movement takes its name from a remark by India's chief justice, who drew criticism after comparing sections of unemployed young people to "cockroaches" during a court hearing. Wangchuk fasted in scorching heat in the capital, Delhi, for 26 days in June and July, consuming only salt and water. He says he has now regained six of the 11kg he lost. The activist was forcibly taken to hospitals which he says were "more like prisons" for the final six days of his fast. By then, the protests had escalated from public anger about the leak of exam papers into some of the biggest anti-government demonstrations India had seen in years. Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan resigned the day after Wangchuk ended his hunger strike. Since then, Modi has announced fast-track courts to try those accused in the leaks and appointed a tech billionaire to lead efforts to reform the examination system. The government also said it would offer compensation to families of students who took their own lives after exam questions were leaked. But India's problems are deeper - with graduate unemployment hovering around 35-40% for the past 25 years. Image source, Reuters Image caption, There were big demonstrations after Sonam Wangchuk was forcibly removed from the protest site to hospital Wangchuk argues fundamental reform to education is needed. The engineer and education specialist says exams currently have little relevance to the job market. Often based on multiple-choice questions, they are designed to assess millions of students efficiently, with no consideration of how effectively they measure skills and understanding, he says. This, in turn, shapes how schools teach. If exams placed greater emphasis on hands-on experience and aptitude, he suggests, schools might adapt their methods and help address India's jobs crisis. "There needs to be some planning of what the world and the country are likely to look like in 15 years," Wangchuk says. Changing the way children are taught might help ensure they are "not left unemployed and sectors that need people are not left underemployed". India's government has previously defended itself against criticism of its handling of the economy. It argues that claims of an unemployment crisis are overstated and that its macroeconomic policy remains fundamentally robust. Why are thousands protesting for education reform in India? Published 23 July The hunger-striking engineer demanding education reforms in India Published 20 July Meanwhile, reports say many Cockroach Janta Party protesters are still facing repercussions including court cases, police harassment and social media abuse. This is happening despite the Supreme Court directing authorities not to take coercive action against those protesters who are facing charges but have no prior criminal record. But regardless of that, Wangchuk says that, "in the last few days, I think there has been good progress". Image source, Reuters Image caption, The engineer has a history of campaigning for more self-rule in Ladakh Wangchuk insists change is in the air in India. He believes the government has been hugely damaged by how long it took before Pradhan stepped down. "This gave young people a chance to gain confidence and unity in their actions." Wangchuk says that, if the government doesn't listen to the people, they may return to protests that go beyond education. He suggests the damage is already being felt by the governing BJP, pointing to the party losing two of three by-elections this week - including a seat in Bihar state it had held for more than 30 years . However, he maintains that India's leaders could still change their approach. "I always believe in people realising their mistakes and amending their ways. So I would give them that chance." Twelve days have now passed since Wangchuk said he broke his fast. He is back in Leh, his hometown in the Himalayan region of Ladakh. He has a renewed faith in the power of hunger strikes - taking inspiration from Mahatma Gandhi's philosophy of non-violent resistance. In previous years he's held hunger strikes for more self-rule in Ladakh and against a "very powerful government" seeking to "bulldoze ecologically sensitive places". Though he has not achieved his goals there, he says "inflicting pain on ourselves makes the government feel differently, compared to us using sticks and stones". Asked if he has any plans to run for office, he says no - he would rather enable others to do so. Related topics Ladakh India More on this story 'I was slut-shamed' - Indian women 'cockroach' protesters doxxed and abused Published 23 hours ago Why India's youth anger has become Modi's biggest challenge Published 1 day ago 'What was my fault?': How India's exam paper leak ended young lives Published 2 days ago The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia 0:50 Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea. 00:00:50, play video Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea 1:01 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller. 00:01:01, play video 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:49 Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales. 00:00:49, play video Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales 0:59 The city closing down streets so children can play. 00:00:59, play video The city closing down streets so children can play 1:23 The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII. 00:01:23, play video The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII 1:30 What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK. 00:01:30, play video What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK 0:37 Crispy butter beans with whipped feta. 00:00:37, play video Crispy butter beans with whipped feta 0:57 Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites. 00:00:57, play video Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport Top stories Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate Published 1 hour ago Infantino remains Fifa president after executive meeting Published 27 minutes ago Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London Published 5 hours ago More to explore The cost of being single – and how friends are teaming up to beat it From flip flops to fisherman's sandals: How to look after your feet this summer 'My grandmother subjected my baby to female genital mutilation behind my back' 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' Kate Nash on Irish history, heritage and covering Sinéad O'Connor There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media 'This year has been the worst for my heat anxiety' Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Love shouldn't feel like fear How hydrated do you really need to be? Melvin Odoom on the MiniDiscs he can't throw away The origin story of the first Comic Con Most read 1 Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London 2 University of Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 3 El-Sayed's victory sends tremors through Democratic Party 4 See the Sun like never before with most detailed images yet 5 Iran says it has agreed Strait of Hormuz shipping route with Oman 6 Family 'devastated' by death of girl, 9, as man charged with murder 7 Student loan repayment rates an 'unsustainable burden', chancellor told 8 Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate 9 Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England 10 Apology after carer fed dog food to elderly woman by mistake BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.