Indian court sentences high-profile journalist to 10 years for rape | Courts News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up News | Courts Indian court sentences high-profile journalist to 10 years for rape Tarun Tejpal, 63, says that he will appeal the conviction at the Supreme Court. Listen (2 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google Tarun Tejpal says he plans to appeal the conviction at the Supreme Court [File: Frederic Soltan/Corbis/Getty Images) By Al Jazeera Staff and AFP Published On 6 Aug 2026 6 Aug 2026 An Indian court has sentenced a prominent journalist to 10 years in prison for raping a junior colleague more than a decade ago, overturning an earlier acquittal . Tarun Tejpal, 62, was accused of raping a female colleague in a lift at a five-star hotel during a Tehelka magazine event in 2013. Recommended Stories list of 3 items list 1 of 3 The rise and fall of Tehelka list 2 of 3 Indian editor denies sex charges list 3 of 3 Tarun Tejpal, ex-editor of top India magazine, acquitted of rape end of list The Goa bench of Bombay High Court on Thursday also ordered Tejpal to pay a fine of $5,250. “He has been convicted to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment. He has been given two weeks’ time to surrender,” Goa Police investigator Sunita Sawant, who led the investigation, told reporters. Tejpal denied the allegations and said before the verdict that he would appeal. “All I can say is I am 62. I believe I am a political victim, I am a father of two daughters. I have a wife. All we can say is we will go up and appeal. My lawyer wants me to request you to be lenient,” Tejpal told the court ahead of sentencing, according to the Indian legal news outlet Bar and Bench. The allegations emerged during a period of heightened public concern over sexual violence against women, culminating in mass protests after a 23-year-old student was gang raped on a bus in New Delhi in December 2012. In response, the government strengthened rape laws. Thursday’s verdict overturned a 2021 acquittal by a Goa court, which dismissed charges of rape, sexual harassment and wrongful restraint against Tejpal. The Goa government challenged that decision at the Bombay High Court, leading to the acquittal being overturned. Following the allegations in November 2013, Tejpal initially described what happened as “a bad lapse of judgement”. In an email to employees, he wrote that “an awful misreading of the situation” had “led to an unfortunate incident that rails against all we believe in and fight for”. Advertisement Tejpal said he would take six months’ leave of absence as “penance” for the assault, provoking anger and accusations that he had trivialised the matter. He was later arrested and spent seven months in jail before being released on bail by the Supreme Court. He later alleged that the case against him was part of a “political vendetta” by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Goa. Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network