U.S. Marine veteran, detained in Russia since 2022, is hospitalized in serious condition - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Politics U.S. Marine veteran, detained in Russia since 2022, is hospitalized in serious condition By Margaret Brennan , Margaret Brennan Moderator, "Face the Nation with Margaret Brennan;" Chief foreign affairs correspondent Margaret Brennan is moderator of "Face the Nation with Margaret Brennan" on CBS. Based in Washington, D.C., Brennan is also the Network's chief foreign affairs correspondent and a contributing correspondent to 60 Minutes. Additionally, she appears regularly on the "CBS Evening News," leading coverage from Washington when news breaks on the political and foreign affairs fronts. Read Full Bio Margaret Brennan , Olivia Gazis Olivia Gazis Olivia Gazis covers intelligence and international security matters for CBS News. Twice Emmy-nominated, she has traveled worldwide with the secretary of state and contributes reporting on intelligence, foreign policy and other security topics across CBS News broadcast, radio, online and streaming platforms. Read Full Bio Olivia Gazis Updated on: August 6, 2026 / 10:45 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google An American Marine Corps veteran detained in Russia since 2022 is now hospitalized in serious condition, according to an advocate for his family, who is urging the Trump administration to push for his immediate release on humanitarian grounds. Robert Gilman, 32, is being held at a Russian hospital in what his advocate, Eric Lebson of Global Reach, described as a "dissociative stupor," adding Gilman is being fed through a tube in his nose. Lebson alleged that Russian authorities have subjected Gilman to mistreatment, including harassment, forced exercise sessions lasting up to 16 hours and the administration of psychotropic drugs. Lebson also alleged Gilman was pressured to fight in Ukraine. CBS News has not independently verified those claims, and Russian officials have not publicly responded. "The situation with Robert is far beyond anything we have seen with any other American detained in Russia," Lebson said. "It concerns us that it could end similar to what happened to Otto Warmbier in North Korea . It is urgent that the Russians release Robert now so the U.S. can get him the emergency medical care he needs." A State Department spokesperson told CBS News on Thursday night that given Gilman's health concerns, the Trump administration "has raised his case repeatedly with the Russian government and has requested his release on humanitarian grounds." The spokesperson said the White House was "deeply concerned about Robert Gilman's health and continued detention in Russia," adding that it "will continue to track" his case closely. Reuters was first to report on Gilman's status. U.S. Marine veteran Robert Gilman at a court hearing in Voronezh, Russia, on April 6, 2026. Vladimir Lavrov / REUTERS Gilman's case comes as the Trump administration weighs whether to try to restart negotiations with Moscow over the war in Ukraine. Those efforts have slowed in recent weeks as the administration has focused on the escalating conflict with Iran and broader Middle East tensions. The Trump administration previously secured the release of several Americans held by Russia, including teacher Marc Fogel and Ksenia Karelina , a U.S.-Russian dual citizen who was freed as part of a prisoner exchange . But as many as 10 Americans are believed to be detained in Russia, according to sources familiar with their cases. Other high-profile Americans released from Russian custody in previous years include former Marine Paul Whelan , Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich and WNBA star Brittney Griner . More from CBS News FAA probing Marine One safety incident around National Airport White House declassifies info on secret FBI probe into Trump's firing of Comey Rick Brattin wins Republican primary for Missouri seat redrawn to favor GOP Trump denies U.S. running low on some munitions, says vast resupplies being made Go deeper with The Free Press Four Years Fighting Russia: An American Soldier’s Testimony ‘I Was Detained Simply for Being an American’ In: Russia © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. CBS News Live CBS News 24/7 Live CBS News 24/7 FAA probing Marine One safety incident around National Airport White House declassifies info on secret FBI probe into Trump's firing of Comey Rick Brattin wins Republican primary for Missouri seat redrawn to favor GOP Four Years Fighting Russia: An American Soldier’s Testimony Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue