Texts suggest Angus Taylor ‘paid money to the Reformers … or was refusing to’, Icac inquiry hears | Independent Commission Against Corruption | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters Jean-Claude Perrottet arrives at the Icac hearing in Sydney on Thursday. Photograph: George Chan/AAP View image in fullscreen Jean-Claude Perrottet arrives at the Icac hearing in Sydney on Thursday. Photograph: George Chan/AAP Independent Commission Against Corruption Texts suggest Angus Taylor ‘paid money to the Reformers … or was refusing to’, Icac inquiry hears Jean-Claude Perrottet, brother of former NSW premier, asked about messages referencing federal opposition leader and factional group Reformers Icac’s spotlight has shone on Dominic Perrottet’s brother – and it won’t be the last we hear from his family Penry Buckley Thu 6 Aug 2026 04.51 EDT First published on Thu 6 Aug 2026 01.47 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google New South Wales’ anti-corruption watchdog has been shown text messages which suggest Angus Taylor “had paid some money to the Reformers … or was refusing to”, according to the lawyer assisting the inquiry. Taylor, the federal opposition leader, is not named in Icac’s allegations and has previously denied making payments to the hard-right factional group the Reformers. Jean-Claude Perrottet, a member, was on Thursday read text messages sent by Reformer cofounder Christian Ellis in September 2021. Ellis says the group has “zero dollars at the moment” in one message. Jean-Claude asks why and Ellis replies: “Because Michael O’Hara hates the vax campaign, and Angus Taylor hates Rob.” The counsel assisting Icac, Juliet Curtin, asked: “That seems to be suggesting that Mr Taylor had paid some money to the Reformers too, doesn’t it, or was refusing to?” The Icac spotlight has shone on Dominic Perrottet’s brother – and it won’t be the last we hear from his family Read more Jean-Claude replied: “It sounds like that’s the suggestion.” Curtin then said: “Do you know anything about that?” “Look, I’ve heard it come up [at the inquiry], but until that came up, I hadn’t recalled that at all,” the younger brother of the former NSW premier Dominic Perrottet said. Dominic Perrottet is not named in Icac’s allegations and is not accused of wrongdoing. The inquiry has previously heard evidence, including from Reformers cofounder Robert Assaf, that hotelier Michael O’Hara threatened to end an arrangement in which he paid lobbying company Beckington for Reformers factional work after the group adopted an anti-vaccination stance. Inquiry hears intercepted calls Late on Thursday, the inquiry heard intercepted phone calls from fugitive property developer Jean Nassif for the first time since the opening day of the inquiry. The corruption watchdog is examining an allegation that between 2020 and 2023, Nassif and his company Toplace made prohibited donations solicited or accepted by Ellis, Jeremy Greenwood and Charles Perrottet in exchange for the pursuit of outcomes sought by Nassif. They including the damage to the career of former Liberal minister and Baulkham Hills MP David Elliott and the removal of the then building commissioner David Chandler, but the inquiry has yet to focus extensively on the allegation. On Thursday afternoon, Jean-Claude Perrottet was played three phone calls between him and Nassif in 2021, when he was managing shares for Nassif while working at Medallion Financial. In one call, Nassif can be heard asking Jean-Claude Perrottet to withdraw “100” from his portfolio to give to “to your brother, to Jeremy or Chris” for “preselection”. Asked about which brother Nassif was proposing to give $100,000, Jean-Claude Perrottet said he didn’t know. “I don’t know what he’s talking about, to be honest with you,” he said, rejecting the suggestion the money was to support the Reformers recruitment work, describing the call as “nonsense”. He was played another call, previously heard on the first day of the inquiry, in which Nassif can be heard to claim that he “fucked him [David Elliott] sideways”, forcing “the boys” to get rid of the former Liberal MP’s seat of Baulkham Hills, and had sent “Castle Hill fucking hundreds of new members”. Jean-Claude Perrottet described the call, in which he also thanked Nassif for “all the support for the family”, as “nonsensical”. “That’s a throwaway comment that gets used all the time,” he said of his remark to Nassif about his family, saying he was not aware of Nassif providing financial support to bring new Liberal members to the Castle Hill branch. He described a third phone call, in which Nassif complained about Chandler, who had been scrutinising his developments for defects, as “crazy talk”. In the call, Nassif allegedly said he “had been promised that the commissioner will be fucking stopped or chased or fucking done something to him”, asking if Jean-Claude Perrottet “can take a message to Charlie or to Dom, the building commissioner, we need to stop him”, and making a subsequent request to “get Charlie to do something please”. Under questioning, Jean-Claude Perrottet accepted that Nassif had made frequent references to his brother, Charles Perrottet, but said he had never heard of his brother agreeing to do anything for Nassif of the nature discussed. Charles Perrottet, who has been named in Icac’s allegation, has previously denied any wrongdoing. Nassif, who fled Australia for regional Lebanon in 2022, is not expected to appear at Icac’s inquiry and has previously denied any wrongdoing. Questions over monthly payments Jean-Claude, earlier on Thursday, told the corruption inquiry he did not know why he received monthly payments of $5,000 from a lobbying company alleged to have accepted prohibited political donations. The corruption watchdog is investigating whether the Reformers solicited or accepted illegal donations for the recruitment or renewal of members to the Liberal party . That practice, known as branch stacking, is not illegal. Curtin asked about invoices for four monthly payments of $5,000 and one payment of $5,500 from registered lobbying company Beckington between April and August 2021. The inquiry has previously heard that Beckington, set up by Ellis and Greenwood in 2019, received payments from prohibited donor and hotelier O’Hara for factional work after issuing fake invoices for consulting advice. Asked about the “substantial injections of cash” into his account, Jean-Claude said: “I’m honestly trying to do my best here. I honestly don’t recall why I might have done some work for them [Beckington].” “I don’t know. I mean, it could have been for work. I mean, maybe, maybe Christian owed me money. I don’t know,” Jean-Claude told the inquiry. The commission had previously heard Jean-Claude Perrotet travelled to Fiji to avoid summons to appear at a parliamentary inquiry in 2023 which preceded Icac’s probe. On Thursday he told the commission: “Yes, I went to Fiji. I was not in a good place, and I didn’t want to partake in what I believed was a sham inquiry.” The watchdog revealed its witnesses for next week, including Greenwood, who has been named in two allegations. Last week, the inquiry heard that a screenshot of a message from Dallas McInerney, the then chief executive of Catholic Schools NSW, was sent to Reformers members in which McInerney said he planned to “shake down Angus for 10k” during a breakfast meeting with ministers. The message was allegedly sent in March 2021 when Taylor was energy minister in the Morrison government. Dylan Whitelaw, another Reformers associate, was read a later-intercepted text message in which he claimed McInerney had told him he had secured a commitment from Taylor for a “15k injection and a 3k monthly donation!” Whitelaw couldn’t recall sending the message and told the inquiry he would be “very surprised” if Taylor made any contribution. McInerney, who is a factional ally of Taylor, will appear at the inquiry next week. Contacted for comment on Thursday, Taylor’s office pointed to previous statements made by the Liberal leader: “I have already made my position clear. No payments were made. The commission has made no allegation that I engaged in any wrongdoing or unlawful conduct. It would be wrong and misleading to suggest otherwise.” Icac’s inquiry continues. Explore more on these topics Independent Commission Against Corruption Liberal party New South Wales politics Australian politics news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Minns said he wouldn’t ‘gloat’ about Icac hearings into the Liberals. Instead, he’s quietly taken out the trash 18m ago The Icac spotlight has shone on Dominic Perrottet’s brother – and it won’t be the last we hear from his family 1d ago NSW Liberal leader says ‘leaking is never good’ but defers call on Tudehope’s fate until after Icac 1d ago ‘Did you send that report?’ The Icac bombshell that came late for Damien Tudehope 2d ago NSW Liberal admits to leaking confidential report to young conservative powerbrokers, inquiry hears 2d ago Australian town defends its ‘long-valued and admired’ statue of an enslaved African American child 2d ago Public urged to avoid hospital unless ‘life might be in danger’ after record day for Sydney emergency departments 2d ago Charity cyclist Bob Montgomery, 82, dies one day after 5,200km ride across Australia 2d ago Liberal power brokers left phones in car to avoid tracing before discussing corruption probe, Icac hears 3d ago ‘Warring kingdoms’: cofounder of religious Reformers compares NSW Liberal party factionalism to Braveheart 30 Jul 2026 Most viewed Most viewed Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)