Lung cancer in nonsmokers: "A women's health crisis" - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Cyberattacks World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds Healthful with Norah O'Donnell | Listen Now CBS News Podcasts Watch CBS News Healthful with Norah O'Donnell Lung cancer in nonsmokers: "A women's health crisis" By Norah O'Donnell Norah O'Donnell Senior Correspondent; Contributing Correspondent, 60 Minutes Norah O'Donnell is a multiple Emmy-Award winning 60 Minutes correspondent. Previously, O'Donnell served as the managing editor and anchor of the "CBS Evening News" for more than five years, in addition to anchoring CBS News election specials. O'Donnell is also the host of "Healthful with Norah O'Donnell," a CBS News podcast focused on women's health. Read Full Bio Norah O'Donnell Updated on: July 22, 2026 / 12:17 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in American women — and a growing share of new cases are in women who've never smoked. Former YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki was one of those women. A nonsmoker, she died nearly two years ago of lung cancer at age 56. It was such a shock. I had interviewed Susan over the years and she had been to my home for a walk and met my children. I so admired her as a friend, a mom to five children, and a female tech leader. Her sister, Anne Wojcicki, started the Susan Wojcicki Foundation with her family to focus on the early detection and prevention of lung cancer. She sat down with me for my latest episode of "Healthful" to discuss an urgent threat to women's health. We were joined by Anne's friend, Shira Kupperman Boehler — a nonsmoker who was diagnosed with stage 1B lung cancer at 44 — and Dr. Kim Sandler, director of the Vanderbilt Lung Screening Program. "This is a women's health crisis, but we don't talk about it," Dr. Sandler told me. So we talked about it at length: everything from risk factors to current and future screening options. Here's what I learned from our conversation — I hope you'll take the time to watch it on YouTube and listen wherever you get your podcasts: Lung cancer kills more people than breast, pancreatic and ovarian cancer combined Lung cancer causes more cancer deaths each year than breast cancer, pancreatic cancer and ovarian cancer combined – in part because once a patient starts experiencing symptoms, it's often too late. According to a 2023 study published in The Journal of Radiology, patients who are diagnosed with lung cancer in stages I or II have a survival rate of 81%. Contrast that with the 10% survival rate of those diagnosed with late-stage lung cancer, per the American Lung Cancer Association. The screening is easy — but it's not recommended for many who would benefit from it Low-dose CT scans are a quick, easy way to screen for lung cancer early, when it's most treatable. Current American Lung Cancer guidelines recommend the scan for people over 50 who have a 20-pack-year history – with a pack-year being defined as "equal to smoking 1 pack (or about 20 cigarettes) per day for a year." But roughly 20% of lung cancer cases are in non-smokers, and women who have never smoked account for two-thirds of those cases. Shira said she'd like to see lung cancer screening happen at age 40, like a mammogram. "The problem is we don't feel our lungs until it's too late, until the cancer has spread to our bones, to our brain, and then it is the number one cancer killer." Breast cancer survivors are at increased risk of getting lung cancer Dr. Sandler told us: "We think about cancer as lightning striking. 'I've had this disease. I should never have to deal with this again. I'm so fortunate that I've come out on the other side.' And the truth is that once we have cancer once, we're actually at an increased risk of developing cancer again, and lung cancer is the most common cancer to develop after breast cancer." More from CBS News Cyclospora outbreak tied to lettuce now linked to 15 states, CDC says Qdoba removes jalapeños as salmonella outbreak spreads to 27 states More adult children live at home now than during the pandemic What's a good CD interest rate this August? Go deeper with The Free Press Spain Gives Europe Another Migrant Crisis How Perimenopause Became America’s New Health Scare In: Cancer Lung Cancer © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Lung Cancer in Women and Never-Smokers The Rise of Lung Cancer in Women and Never-Smokers 56:38 The Rise of Lung Cancer in Women and Never-Smokers (56:38) Cyclospora outbreak tied to lettuce now linked to 15 states, CDC says Qdoba removes jalapeños as salmonella outbreak spreads to 27 states More adult children live at home now than during the pandemic Spain Gives Europe Another Migrant Crisis Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue