Drone with explosives found at German airport : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Drone with explosives found at German airport Regional police and prosecutors said an airport employee discovered a drone near the airport's south runway with "an unknown explosive device," and the object was examined by police Europe Drone with explosives found at German airport, official sees 'new quality' of threat August 6, 2026 1:23 AM ET By The Associated Press A forensic technician works alongside a bomb-disposal robot near a Ukrainian aircraft at Leipzig/Halle Airport, where a drone with an explosive device was found and a detonator was removed from the object, in Schkeuditz, Germany, Wednesday Aug. 5, 2026. Hendrik Schmidt/DPA via AP hide caption toggle caption Hendrik Schmidt/DPA via AP BERLIN — A drone with explosives was found at Germany's Leipzig/Halle Airport and the device was defused, authorities said Wednesday, in an incident that the country's top security official said posed a "new quality of danger." Both the runways at the major freight hub were closed and several flights, including one passenger plane, were diverted to other airports after a flying object was sighted nearby shortly before midnight Tuesday. An anti-explosives robot was deployed to check an object near the south runway. Regional police and prosecutors later said an airport employee discovered a drone near the airport's south runway with "an unknown explosive device," and the object was examined by police. They removed its detonator. Sponsor Message That the drone was carrying explosives "is a new quality of danger," German Interior Minister Alexander Dobrindt told reporters at the airport after interrupting his vacation to travel to the scene. "Drone sightings, drone threats including in a hybrid context, are something we know from the past," he added. "That a drone armed with explosives is at an airport is a new threat scenario." Dobrindt described what happened as "a hybrid attack scenario," but didn't offer more details of authorities' assessment or specify who might be responsible. He said questions about details of the explosives, the origin of the drone and who was behind the incident were a matter for the ongoing investigation. The regional interior minister of Saxony state, Armin Schuster, said authorities were looking for parts of a possible second drone. Police and prosecutors said an apparent second flying object collided with a freight airplane after it aborted a landing at Leipzig/Halle because the runway was closed. The plane flew to another German airport, Hannover, about 200 kilometers (125 miles) to the northwest, where officials found slight damage. The north runway at Leipzig/Halle was reopened after about two hours. The south runway was scheduled to be out of action for maintenance on Wednesday. Authorities said there was no danger to passengers or airport employees, and flights weren't affected during the day. Sponsor Message Photos from the scene showed police technicians with an explosives-disposal robot near a Ukrainian plane. The airport is a leading cargo hub and the planes located there include Ukrainian Antonov transport aircraft. NATO said it was aware of the incident but referred queries to German authorities. In 2024, an incendiary device ignited at a logistics center at the airport and set fire to a freight container, part of a plot that Western security officials suspect Russian intelligence was behind. The flight it was supposed to take was delayed. Western officials have accused Russia and its proxies of staging dozens of attacks and other incidents across Europe since the full-scale invasion of Ukraine more than four years ago. drone airport Germany Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Europe A Russian barrage in Ukraine's capital kills 17 as air defenses fall short State of the World from NPR Why Russia’s strikes on Ukraine are more intense; Germany’s song of the summer Ukraine invasion — explained The soaring demand for Patriot missiles, from the Middle East to Ukraine Europe Europe's heat wave fuels drought, wildfires and fears about energy supplies Europe Overnight Russian barrage kills nine in Kyiv, as air defense struggle with U.S. continues Europe Spain's Pedro Sánchez was a hero of migrants. After Ceuta, he faces his biggest challenge Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after Politics Senate Homeland Security committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress Education Trump administration moves to deregulate Head Start, opening door for sweeping change TV Reviews 'Furious' is an unforgettable thriller, not just a 'Black Widow' remake The Ripple Effect The keepers of the Grateful Dead's history Health Dr. Erica Schwartz confirmed as CDC director, filling a leadership vacuum NPR Editors' Picks Global Health How Cambodia became the first Asian country to hit an elusive HIV target Politics Celebrity culture is one thing. For TMZ, Congress is the new 'reality show' Sports Gianni Infantino gets internal support at crisis meeting to remain as FIFA president Asia Ousted Bangladeshi leader vows to return from exile despite facing a death sentence Immigration Small Texas law firm set to receive $150M to represent unaccompanied migrant children Asia Under China's new 'unity' law, Tibetans fight to preserve language and culture Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal By clicking “Accept All Cookies” or continuing, you agree to the use of cookies, similar tracking and storage technologies, and information about your device to enhance your viewing, listening and user experience, personalize content, personalize messages from NPR’s sponsors, provide social media features, and analyze NPR’s traffic. This information is shared with social media, sponsorship, analytics, and other vendors or service providers. You may customize which cookies you accept in "Cookie Settings." Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies Privacy Preference Center NPR and our service providers and vendors use cookies and similar technologies to collect information. A cookie is a string of characters that can be written to a file on the user's computer or device when the user visits a site, application, platform or service. When you visit a website or use a mobile application, a computer asks your computer or mobile device for permission to store this file on your computer or mobile device and access information from it. Information gathered through cookies may include the date and time of visits and how you are using the website. Note that if you disable or delete cookies, you may lose access to certain features of the NPR Services. User ID: 4fc97d17-40cc-4a01-ba49-6ed28695b722 This User ID will be used as a unique identifier while storing and accessing your preferences for future. Timestamp: -- Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Performance and Analytics Cookies Performance and Analytics Cookies These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Functional Cookies These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Targeting and Sponsor Cookies These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Reject All Confirm My Choices