FAA clears smallest Boeing 737 Max to fly - UPI.com U.S. News World News Korea Regional Review Latin America Region Odd News Entertainment Movies Music TV Sports NFL MLB NBA Soccer Voices Photos News US News World News Entertainment Sports Archive Almanac Trending Lionel Richie Emari Demercado USPS whistleblower Times Square stabbing Mosque attack James Jordan Mosque attack Cuba retail Mysterious island U.S. News Aug. 3, 2026 / 5:27 PM FAA clears smallest Boeing 737 Max to fly By Jill Keppeler A Boeing Max 737 is seen on display in 2018 at the Farnborough International Air Show in Farnborough, United Kingdom. The Federal Aviation Administration has certified the Boeing Max 737 7 model to fly after years of delays. File Photo by Cityswift/Flickr Aug. 3 (UPI) -- After years of delays, the Federal Aviation Administration has certified the Boeing 737 Max 7, the smallest model in that line, to fly passengers. The FAA delayed the certification for reasons including the redesign of an engine anti-icing system and other safety and manufacturing issues. In addition, there was increased inspection after Max 8 models, which had already been certified, crashed in 2018 and 2019. "The approval reflects years of sustained work to resolve complex technical issues and complete a thorough review of the airplane's design and supporting safety analyses," the FAA said in a statement . "Throughout the process, the FAA performed or directly reviewed significant work involving flight controls, system safety assessments, human factors, flight-crew alerting and other novel, complex or safety-critical areas, while also requiring testing, design changes, and additional analysis when necessary." Airlines will now need to work the planes into schedules, so it may take a while before passengers see them. They had originally expected to have the Max 7 models flying before the COVID-19 pandemic. "This important certification validates the rigor of our airplane's design and recognizes the determination and resilience of our 737 MAX development team," said Stephanie Pope, Boeing Commercial Airplanes president and CEO, in a statement Monday. Boeing's stock rose about 8% in Monday afternoon trading following the news. The company is still waiting on certification of the 737 Max 10 model, the largest in the line, which has also been delayed for years. In mid-July, the FAA resumed allowing Boeing to issue airworthiness certificates for its 737 Max aircraft and 787 Dreamliners. The manufacturer lost that authority after the Max 8 crashes, which killed more than 300 people. It has since escalated production of those airplanes. Read More Boeing: $428 million loss in 2Q after Air Force One cost overages Report: Boeing Starliner future with NASA unclear Boeing details safety improvements one year after Alaska Airlines door plug incident Topics Federal Aviation Administration COVID-19 Latest Headlines U.S. News // 53 minutes ago Trump taps Hung Cao to lead Navy permanently Sept. 2 (UPI) -- President Donald Trump on Tuesday nominated Hung Cao to be secretary of the Navy amid an ongoing shakeup of the U.S. military. U.S. News // 2 hours ago DOJ sues Kansas City, Kan., schools over transgender guidelines Sept. 2 (UPI) -- the Justice Department sued a Kansas City school district, accusing it of violating federal law with student gender identity guidelines. U.S. News // 4 hours ago Judge rules suspect in Charlie Kirk killing can stand trial Sept. 1 (UPI) -- A Utah judge ruled Tuesday that there is sufficient evidence for Tyler Robinson to stand trial for the murder of Charlie Kirk. U.S. News // 5 hours ago House of Representatives censures Rep. Chuck Edwards over conduct Sept. 1 (UPI) -- The House of Representatives on Tuesday voted to censure Rep. Chuck Edwards, R-N.C., over allegations of misconduct toward two female staff members. U.S. News // 6 hours ago Tropical Storm Edouard moves inland, flash flooding possible Sept. 1 (UPI) -- Tropical Storm Edouard made landfall Tuesday at the Texas-Louisiana border, moving inland toward the northwest with gusty winds and heavy rainfall. U.S. News // 7 hours ago Maine teenager tied to extremist 764 network sentenced Sept. 1 (UPI) -- A Maine 17-year-old has been charged in federal court and sentenced in connection with online nihilistic extremist groups, the FBI said Tuesday. U.S. News // 7 hours ago Gateway Arch is going dark to help migrating birds St. Louis' Gateway Arch will go dark at night throughout September as millions of birds make their seasonal journey south. U.S. News // 9 hours ago House votes to fund government through Dec. 11 Sept. 1 (UPI) -- Members of the U.S. House of Representatives voted Tuesday to approve short-term government funding through the midterm elections and into December. U.S. News // 10 hours ago Trump administration urges screen time limits for kids in symposium Sept. 1 (UPI) -- The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services hosted a Live Real Life Symposium Tuesday in Washington, D.C., to ask families to reduce screen time. U.S. News // 11 hours ago U.S. military hits Iran targets again; Trump threatens bigger attacks Sept. 1 (UPI) -- The U.S. military launched new strikes Tuesday on Iran, attacks that President Donald Trump said were in retaliation for Iran's recent actions. Trending Stories Opposition to oil deal with U.S. grows in Venezuela USPS whistleblower says new mail voting policy hidden from public Mexican forces kill cartel leader targeted by $3M U.S. reward John Ternus takes over as CEO of Apple as Tim Cook steps aside Latin America's changing family is becoming a demographic challenge Follow Us Back to top About UPI Contact Corrections Advertisements Copyright © 2026 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Privacy Manager