Senior managers at St Basil’s aged care, where 50 died from Covid, can’t remember it all. Grieving loved ones can’t forget | Coronavirus | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 3 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Almost a quarter of the 188 residents at St Basil’s aged care home died from Covid-19 or neglect during July and August 2020. Photograph: James Ross/AAP View image in fullscreen Almost a quarter of the 188 residents at St Basil’s aged care home died from Covid-19 or neglect during July and August 2020. Photograph: James Ross/AAP Coronavirus Senior managers at St Basil’s aged care, where 50 died from Covid, can’t remember it all. Grieving loved ones can’t forget Konstantin Kontis and Vicky Kos were compelled to testify at a coronial inquest resuming on the sixth anniversary of the tragedy Get our breaking news email , free app or daily news podcast Melissa Davey Medical editor Fri 7 Aug 2026 20.00 EDT Last modified on Fri 7 Aug 2026 20.01 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Quiet sobs could be heard in Melbourne’s coroner’s court, as several families attended to finally hear from the pair who were the most senior managers when, throughout July and August 2020, almost a quarter of the 188 residents at St Basil’s aged care home died from Covid-19 or neglect . Following multiple failed legal bids to avoid giving evidence after 50 residents died in the Victorian aged care home they managed, Konstantin Kontis and Vicky Kos were compelled to testify at a coronial inquest resuming on the sixth anniversary of the tragedy. During his evidence on Friday, Kontis said that the board of St Basil’s, operating under the auspice of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of Australia, never signed off on the facility’s Covid-19 management policy and that he believed, as chair, he had the delegated authority to approve it without them. Counsel assisting the coroner, Naomi Hodgson, told the court the policy contained no strong guidance on close contacts of Covid cases, and that the main guidance on symptoms was to follow the directives of the state and federal governments. The policy document was not updated as new directives came in from the government, the court heard. Instead this information was printed and put into a yellow folder for staff to keep up-to-date with. Kontis accepted under questioning that there was no delegation of authority that allowed him to approve “such a significant document” without input from the board. Sign up for the Breaking News Australia email Kontis was also questioned about why he did not convene board meetings as the outbreak grew, especially once testing of 116 residents and 95 staff on 15 July 2020 – as organised by the federal department of health – revealed 28 positive cases. “My communication then had switched to the archbishop direct,” Kontis said. “I don’t want to put tickets on myself, but he had full confidence that I would handle the matter in the most appropriate way.” St Basil’s Covid tragedy: ‘We are still finding out things that we weren’t aware of and it makes us angry’ Read more Hodgson put it to Kontis that regardless of whether an approved aged care provider was a not-for-profit, for-profit, or religiously run, the leadership had obligations under the aged care and corporate laws to inform the board. She suggested Kontis was wrong in some of his understanding of these obligations, which he accepted. Kontis said a board meeting was held in April 2020 before the outbreak at the home and after Covid was spreading through aged care elsewhere. Discussions would have occurred then, he said, about what to do if a significant portion of the workforce became infected. The court heard that no minutes from that meeting had been found in about 10,000 pages of briefing evidence provided to the coroner. It prompted the inquest – due to close its questioning of witnesses on Friday – to be delayed to allow St Basil’s representatives to conduct a search. Kontis’ evidence is due to resume on 16 November. View image in fullscreen Medical waste is removed from St Basil's on 27 July 2020. Photograph: William West/AFP/Getty Images The yellow folder Earlier in the week, the court heard that no cohort plan for separating Covid positive residents from uninfected ones could be found in documents provided to the court. Kos, who was director of nursing and facility manager at the time, said this plan was placed in the yellow folder. Some documents from that folder had gone missing, she said. ‘In one fell swoop they’re gone’: how Covid tore through Melbourne’s St Basil’s Read more She gave evidence that many documents from the state and federal government were being added to this folder, and that staff were expected to keep up-to-date with it when starting shifts. Information was also shared during handovers, she said. Following this evidence, a search on Monday night of electronic and hard-file repositories of documents, including those previously seized by Victoria police, did not reveal such a cohort plan, the court heard on Tuesday from St Basil’s barrister, Conor O’Bryan. O’Bryan said because some files had been lost it could not be proven that a cohort plan never existed. ‘I didn’t attend’ During his evidence, Kontis was pressed on why he did not attend key meetings, organised by senior management of the home and attended by health officials, once it became clear the outbreak was significant and the entire workforce needed to be stood down. Kontis said he disagreed with a directive from the chief health officer at the time, Prof Brett Sutton, to furlough the entire workforce and replace them with agency staff to prevent further spread. Kontis said he did not trust the staff would be competent and Covid-free. “You’ve just received the news that your entire staff is going to be stood down,” Hodgson said. “Why didn’t you attend [meetings] as the only person on the board with vision of what was happening here?” Kontis responded: “I can’t answer that. I didn’t attend.” He said he was informed about what happened at meetings immediately afterwards by attenders. Kontis said there were also some meetings he did not believe he was invited to. Hodgson said that St Basil’s, as an approved aged care provider, had a duty under law to implement policies and procedures to manage risk and ensure care for consumers. View image in fullscreen Spiros Vasilakis’ mother died at St Basil’s during the outbreak and he has attended the inquest every day. ‘It still hurts for all of us families here,’ he says. Photograph: Christopher Hopkins/The Guardian Asked why he did not convene a meeting of the risk and audit committee before or throughout the outbreak, Kontis said, “I couldn’t get anybody to attend a meeting because of Covid.” skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | When needed Sign up to Breaking News Australia Get the most important news as it breaks Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion Hodgson responded this was “an improbable answer in circumstances where you’ve already told me you can get people on the phone”. The court previously heard that agency staff brought in to take over struggled to find the information they needed to run the facility, from passwords and logins for computers, to notes about the clinical care of residents. Kontis said this information could be found in folders. “We had folders in the kitchen, folders with the cleaners, folders with the maintenance people,” he said. Hodgson put it to Kontis that, as an approved aged care provider and chairman, he had responsibility for the agency staff and to assist them to fulfil their duties. “Well, that’s your interpretation,” Kontis said. Hodgson replied: “I’d suggest to you … that it’s not my interpretation, it was your responsibility as an approved provider.” “That’s that’s your assertion,” Kontis said. Signs in ‘simple language’ Kos had earlier told the court that English was a second language for 95% of the original St Basil’s staff, and the majority did not have laptops or computers. Asked how critical and sometimes complicated Covid information was then communicated, she said signs in “simple language” were placed around the facility and information was shared during shift handovers. Kos disagreed under cross-examination that the process of adding documents constantly to folders and expecting staff with English as a second language to keep across these during shifts was a complex task for them. Aged care worker living with relatives who had Covid symptoms cleared to work at St Basil’s, inquest hears Read more She agreed that having a clear Covid plan in place would make it less likely that people would die. The inquest had previously heard from staff and family members in 2021 that infected residents were mingling with those who had not tested positive to the virus, and that infection control procedures throughout the home were poor. Kos told the court that on 9 July 2020, when the first case in a staff member was identified, she began to follow a Covid-19 aged care checklist issued by the federal government about what to do in the first 24 hours. Kos told the court she did not complete the step that said to alert the commonwealth department of health at a dedicated aged care email address within 30 minutes. She said she spoke with the state public health hotline as the document required, and because she was told to wait to hear about next steps, she did not proceed to the next step on the checklist, which was to email the commonwealth. The checklist said the commonwealth could connect aged care homes with resources to manage the outbreak including testing, additional PPE and a surge workforce, the court heard. Delays in the commonwealth learning of the case meant staff and residents were not mass-tested until days later . The inquest previously heard this was a root cause of the outbreak. Kontis said he did not believe it was his role to email the commonwealth as he trusted facility staff to do so and to follow procedures in place. ‘I don’t remember’ Throughout the five days, Kontis had to be reminded several times not to interject during questioning, and to listen before responding. With years having passed since the tragedy, Kos’ response to many questions throughout the week was, “I don’t remember”. Both Kontis and Kos refused to testify, only doing so after a certificate was granted by the coroner, Liberty Sanger – meaning their evidence can not be used against them in criminal or civil litigation. Spiros Vasilakis, whose mother, Maria, died at the home during the outbreak, attended each day. “It still hurts for all of us families here,” Vasilakis said. “It hurts to hear anyone say that because it’s been six years, they can’t remember. I can tell you that families remember, detail by detail, what occurred. I haven’t forgotten anything.” The inquest continues. Explore more on these topics Coronavirus Victoria Health news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Dorothy’s aged care home charged $52 a day for Foxtel, wine and newspapers that were no use to her. She wasn’t alone 12 Jul 2026 … … comments Rise in adulterated sexual enhancement supplements could mean users are getting stiffed 4d ago … … comments Cannabis, corruption probes and Daniel Andrews: Ben Carroll says scandals have eroded public trust – how will he fix it? 1d ago Full Story Foxtel and wine: aged care residents billed for unused services – Full Story podcast 14 Jul 2026 Good Samaritan dies days after being attacked while trying to stop Melbourne shoplifters 3d ago Public urged to avoid hospital unless ‘life might be in danger’ after record day for Sydney emergency departments 5d ago Australian aged care firm accused in class action of charging residents for high teas and classes they couldn’t use 5 Jul 2026 ‘Prioritising profit’: Australians regularly prescribed medicinal cannabis with very high THC levels 29 Jul 2026 A ‘staged’ meeting and a secret deal: how a union boss exerted ‘extraordinary influence’ on the Andrews government 3d ago Australians in end-of-life agony can’t always see a doctor. Telehealth can help them die with dignity 28 Jul 2026 … … comments Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)