Conservatives pledge to ban foreign nationals from social housing - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Conservatives pledge to ban foreign nationals from social housing Image source, Getty Images Image caption, The Conservatives claim that nearly 230,000 socially rented homes will be freed up for British families By James Gregory Political reporter Published 6 August 2026 Updated 2 hours ago The Conservatives have said they would end the provision of social housing for foreign nationals in England if they win power at the next election. The party said ending new tenancies for all foreign nationals, as well as current tenancies for couples where neither person is a UK, Irish or EU citizen, would free up an estimated 228,144 homes for British families. The Conservatives said Labour had "lost control of immigration" and British families had been left sitting on housing waiting lists as a result. But Labour said the policy was an "unserious, unworkable proposal, copied from Reform, that does nothing to tackle the housing crisis the Tories themselves created". In June, Reform UK leader Nigel Farage said he would make it a requirement for foreign national tenants to find private accommodation within three months or face possible deportation if his party won power. Under the Tory proposals, ineligible tenants would be expected to move out of their homes within six months. Any single person currently living in social housing who is not a UK, Irish or EU citizen would lose their social home. This includes those with or without children. Couples, where neither of them are UK or EU citizens, and they do not have EU settled status, will also lose their entitlement. Anyone with EU settled status would not be evicted. For future tenancies, UK nationals and those with EU settled status would be eligible but any new EU citizens without settled status would not be. Foreign nationals with settled status, refugee status, or specific humanitarian protections can currently qualify for social housing. Asylum seekers are not eligible for social housing, unless in exceptional circumstances such as domestic abuse cases. Social housing, usually provided by housing associations or local councils, is typically cheaper and more secure than privately rented homes. When they were last in government in 2024, the Conservatives were considering plans to make it a requirement for foreign nationals to have to live in the UK for 10 years before qualifying for social housing. There are 1.34 million households on social housing waiting lists, as of March 2025, the latest government figures. The vast majority of social housing lettings are given to single people. In 2024-25, most lead tenants of new social lettings, the person in whose name the social home is rented, were UK nationals - 89% or 233,000 tenants. In the same period, 2.3% of new lettings were given to refugees - 800 refugees were UK nationals, while the remaining 3,900 were non-UK nationals. The most common nationality of refugees in a new social letting was Afghanistan with the second most common being Ukraine. 'Homelessness risk' Conservative shadow work and pensions secretary Helen Whately said: "Making Britain your home should be earned by working, paying tax and integrating. "It should not come with a free ride on the benefits system. Britain cannot be a cash machine for the world. "Labour has lost control of immigration and lost control of the welfare bill, and it is British families picking up the bill and sitting on waiting lists." Labour's Housing Secretary Angela Rayner said the Conservative policy would primarily affect refugees and long-term UK residents who had contributed to the country, while also leaving more families at risk of homelessness. "No amount of headline-chasing, or following Reform to the extremes, can hide the damage the Tories did to our housing system," she said, adding: "This unserious, unworkable proposal, copied from Reform, would do nothing to tackle the housing crisis the Tories themselves created." Housing and homelessness charity Shelter said there were already strict rules on eligibility for social housing and accommodation was not handed out to people on arrival. "These divisive plans would brutally kick people out of their homes, including thousands of families and pensioners who have lived in them for decades," chief executive Sarah Elliott said. "The housing emergency is caused by successive governments failure to build enough genuinely affordable social homes - not by who accesses social housing." Reform UK's home affairs spokesperson Zia Yusuf said the Conservatives were trying to copy his party's policy but accused them of not going far enough as their proposed ban does not include those with EU settled status. "Incredibly, Kemi Badenoch's new policy is to allow tens of thousands of foreign nationals from the EU to occupy British social housing funded by British taxpayers," he said. "Reform UK will ensure British social housing is strictly for British citizens." Can Andy Burnham solve the housing crisis? Published 16 July Yusuf in clash with Jenrick over Reform deportation policy Published 26 May County's pause on new asylum seeker housing lifted Published 2 days ago Sign up for our Politics Essential newsletter to keep up with the inner workings of Westminster and beyond. Related topics Conservative Party Nigel Farage Reform UK The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:05 What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:05, play video What we know about the Thailand school shooting 1:11 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 00:01:11, play video 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 0:39 How much rain will end the drought? 00:00:39, play video How much rain will end the drought? 1:43 Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment. 00:01:43, play video Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment 0:24 Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol. 00:00:24, play video Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol 1:00 What is 'food noise'? 00:01:00, play video What is 'food noise'? 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:00 What do people want from Argos? 00:01:00, play video What do people want from Argos? 0:58 Meet Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 New hope for Afghan women's football team. 00:01:19, play video New hope for Afghan women's football team 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house hit in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house hit in strike Top stories Live . Several dead after Thai teen shoots grandparents and schoolteachers 9932 viewing 9.9k viewing Thai pupil describes harrowing moment teacher was shot in front of her Published 44 minutes ago Officer who led PC Harper investigation 'appalled' killers could be released early Published 1 hour ago More to explore Argos is getting a makeover - but can it attract new shoppers? Lauryn Hill and Wyclef ‘in an amazing place’ as fans hope for new Fugees album after 30 years How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man ‘We have nowhere to return to’: How Russia is seizing homes in occupied Ukraine Sudan's invisible children - born in war with no legal identity First OpenAI, now Meta - why do AI hacks keep happening? The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 England footballer Toney charged with assault in Soho 2 Further arrests in Thetford as disorder continues for third night 3 Officer who led PC Harper investigation 'appalled' killers could be released early 4 How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man 5 Meta fined $567m in largest child safety ruling against social media giant 6 Trump again tries to limit US birthright citizenship with new executive orders 7 'Tories to end social housing for foreigners' and 'Bottoms down' 8 German airport drone-bomb: Could Russia be involved? 9 Argos is getting a makeover - but can it attract new shoppers? 10 Weekly quiz: Ed Sheeran got in trouble with the DVLA over which make of classic car? BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.