Minns said he wouldn’t ‘gloat’ about Icac hearings into the Liberals. Instead, he’s quietly taking out the trash | New South Wales politics | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development The NSW premier Chris Minns has defended his government’s timing in releasing controversial reports. Photograph: Gaye Gerard/AAP View image in fullscreen The NSW premier Chris Minns has defended his government’s timing in releasing controversial reports. Photograph: Gaye Gerard/AAP New South Wales politics Analysis Minns said he wouldn’t ‘gloat’ about Icac hearings into the Liberals. Instead, he’s quietly taking out the trash Penry Buckley Amid revelations that could damage the opposition’s state election hopes, the NSW government dropped key documents on three contentious issues Follow our Australia news live blog for latest updates Get our breaking news email , free app or daily news podcast Thu 6 Aug 2026 11.00 EDT Last modified on Fri 7 Aug 2026 00.27 EDT Share During the first week of the Independent Commission Against Corruption’s Operation Rosny’s hearings into allegations against people associated with the New South Wales Liberal party, Chris Minns took the high ground. “There’ll be no gloating or taking political advantage,” the NSW Labor premier told reporters. “It’s an important process and ultimately, hopefully, it makes all political parties cleaner and sends a message to anyone who’s thinking of breaching the laws or committing a corrupt act, that someone is watching.” There’s a less generous way to describe what the Labor government has quietly gone about doing during Icac’s second of at least eight weeks of hearings: “Taking out the trash.” This week the NSW government dropped key documents on not one but three contentious issues, burying them – intentionally or not – amid revelations that could damage the election hopes of state Liberal and opposition leader, Kellie Sloane, who was not an MP at the time of the alleged wrongdoing being investigated by the corruption watchdog. Texts suggest Angus Taylor ‘paid money to the Reformers … or was refusing to’, Icac inquiry hears Read more The first document, a long-awaited report into hate speech laws by the former supreme court justice John Sackar, was tabled by the attorney general, Michael Daley, during an Icac appearance by Liberal leader in the upper house, Damien Tudehope. Tudehope, as shadow attorney general, had been leading a fight for the release of the Sackar review, which had been gathering dust since November – and which the government had argued was “cabinet in confidence”. The Labor minister John Graham was suspended over the government’s refusal to release it in May. Giving evidence on Tuesday morning Tudehope defended talks he gave at conservative Liberal events, including one against the Safe Schools program, which had a stated aim of keeping gay and transgender students safe. View image in fullscreen NSW Liberal member of the Legislative Council Damien Tudehope (right) arrives to give evidence during the Icac Operation Rosny hearings. Photograph: Bianca de Marchi/AAP On Tuesday afternoon, Daley announced that the government would not implement the Sackar review’s key recommendation, to expand a controversial offence for inciting hatred on the grounds of race to other protected attributes, including religion, sexual orientation and gender identity, because it raised “complex questions”. But rather than the focus being on the government’s report, Tudehope, who is not named in Icac’s allegations and has stepped aside from his shadow cabinet roles during the inquiry, found himself making headlines . After the admission that he had leaked a confidential parliamentary report to conservative Liberal factional group the Reformers, his future as shadow attorney general is now uncertain. Sign up for the Breaking News Australia email On Wednesday, with the Liberals still reeling from Tudehope’s testimony and Icac hearing evidence from the younger brother of former Liberal premier, Dominic Perrottet, Jean-Claude Perrottet, the government released two more documents. At a press conference on Wednesday, the government released its response to the inquest into the Bondi Junction stabbings, on the final day of a six-month window it had to respond to the recommendations under non-mandatory guidelines . Labor fielded questions about why it had only committed “in principle” to a recommendation to deliver short- and long-term accommodation for people experiencing mental health issues and homelessness. Daley, at the press conference, rejected the suggestion the government had tried to bury the Sackar report the previous day. “A few weeks ago we were getting criticised for not releasing the report. Now we’re getting criticised for releasing the report,” he said. “What day would have been better? Sunday be better?” That same afternoon, Daley tabled legal advice sought in response to a committee report which had found the state’s top prosecutor, the director of public prosecutions, Sally Dowling, lied under oath to an inquiry. The allegations relate to a decision by the DPP to pitch a story about an Indigenous child who performed an acknowledgment of country during a sentencing hearing. Dowling admitted her office had pitched the story to radio station 2GB but denied she had authorised it. The DPP has rejected the committee’s findings. The tabled advice from former Bar Association president Noel Hutley SC said there was no “no positive basis” to reject Dowling’s account “and find that she, in fact, gave false evidence”. “For such a serious finding to be substantiated, something more than mere disbelief of the director’s evidence was required,” Hutley wrote. The committee had written about the difficulty it experienced after other ODPP witnesses did not appear following a court of appeal decision in favour of the premier’s chief of staff, which removed the upper house’s power to compel witnesses to appear before inquiries – another issue Tudehope had been prosecuting. But on Wednesday, Daley said he considered the committee’s findings “closed”. The Australian high court will hear an appeal by the upper house against the court of appeal decision later this year. Despite his claims of not taking “political advantage”, the premier has not resisted delighting in the Liberals’ troubles. The Icac spotlight has shone on Dominic Perrottet’s brother – and it won’t be the last we hear from his family Read more As Tudehope gave evidence to Icac on Tuesday, Minns used a speech in question time to reference the shadow attorney general, “who is in the news at the moment”. He also referenced Chris Rath, another Liberal frontbencher in the upper house caught up in the Icac inquiry. Last week, after the Sydney Morning Herald revealed Rath had helped members of the Reformers evade summons to appear before a 2023 parliamentary inquiry, the premier used it as a pretext to reject calls for the restoration of witness powers. Rath, who is not named in Icac’s allegations, has apologised after receiving a caution from the parliamentary privileges committee. Minns told a press conference: “I think this is exhibit 400 as to why the upper house shouldn’t be given extraordinary police powers. They’re desperate to get the power of arrest.” On Thursday, criticising an upper house amendment which would increase the number of political staffers in crossbench and opposition offices, Minns took open aim at Tudehope. “This is happening at the same time as the Icac is reporting incredibly concerning details of political staff [allegedly] not being used for taxpayer purposes, but for internal Liberal party purposes,” he said. “One of the people who would get extra staff as a result of this amendment is Damien Tudehope. I think it’s extraordinary.” On Thursday, Minns defended the timing of the release of the Sackar report, nine months after it was tabled: “[Icac] goes for eight weeks. If … we went by that logic, we couldn’t do anything. “It wasn’t released at midnight and on Sunday. It was during work hours, at the beginning of the work week. It had been asked for by the crossbench repeatedly.” But even with the Labor taking out the trash while the Liberals stare down scandal, neither could end up winners – as Minns himself acknowledged. Last week, as One Nation rose in the polls, Minns said the Icac inquiry was not “necessarily the big boon for our political party that many believe”. “My concern is that people say, ‘Well I’ve seen Labor at Icac, and I’ve seen the Liberal party at Icac. I’m going to vote for a third party this time.’” Explore more on these topics New South Wales politics Independent Commission Against Corruption Chris Minns New South Wales Liberal party Labor party analysis Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Five years and $122m later, North Sydney Olympic swimming pool has finally reopened. Was it worth the wait? 11h ago Texts suggest Angus Taylor ‘paid money to the Reformers … or was refusing to’, Icac inquiry hears 2d ago Police drop charges against 125 Rising Tide protesters two years after Newcastle port blockade 16h ago Dogs to be euthanised after man dies following suspected animal attack at rural Sydney property 13h ago The Icac spotlight has shone on Dominic Perrottet’s brother – and it won’t be the last we hear from his family 2d ago NSW Liberal leader says ‘leaking is never good’ but defers call on Tudehope’s fate until after Icac 3d ago ‘Did you send that report?’ The Icac bombshell that came late for Damien Tudehope 3d ago NSW Liberal admits to leaking confidential report to young conservative powerbrokers, inquiry hears 4d ago Public urged to avoid hospital unless ‘life might be in danger’ after record day for Sydney emergency departments 4d ago Liberal power brokers left phones in car to avoid tracing before discussing corruption probe, Icac hears 5d ago Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)