Under China’s new 'unity' law, Tibetans fight to preserve language and culture : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Under China’s new 'unity' law, Tibetans fight to preserve language and culture A 73-year-old retired nurse's decision to learn to write Tibetan language offers a glimpse into how some embrace their language and cultural identity in Tibet. Asia Under China's new 'unity' law, Tibetans fight to preserve language and culture August 5, 2026 11:26 AM ET By The Associated Press Kalsang Lhamo, a 73-year-old retired nurse, practices Tibetan calligraphy at the Chengguan District Day Care Center for the Elderly in western China's Tibet autonomous region on July 20, 2026, during a government-organized visit for foreign journalists. Ng Han Guan/AP hide caption toggle caption Ng Han Guan/AP LHASA, Tibet — Kalsang Lhamo traces a series of vertical strokes, slow but firm, practicing Tibetan calligraphy. A 73-year-old retired nurse, she has spoken Tibetan all her life but never learned to write it. Now, in classes at a center for older adults, she immerses herself in the script. Lhamo also speaks and writes Chinese, which China mandated as its primary language for schools and government agencies in a sweeping new "ethnic unity" law implemented July 1. Under the new regulations, acts deemed to incite division among China's 56 ethnic groups are prohibited, and schools, families and other institutions are expected to foster patriotism, national unity and a strong sense of community for the Chinese nation. Sponsor Message The law has been widely criticized as a way to further erode the rights of Tibetans and other minorities, and for the authority it gives Beijing to target activities it considers separatist, even outside China. The Chinese government has dismissed foreign criticism as "ideological bias." In Tibet — a remote Himalayan region officially designated autonomous but tightly controlled by Beijing — the stakes are particularly high. This year, China is marking the 75th anniversary of what it calls the "peaceful liberation" of Xizang — the Chinese name for Tibet — an event many Tibetans in exile and other critics regard as an invasion. Some Tibetan activists say the new law represents more forced cultural assimilation and extended control over ethnic minorities. Rights groups say language policies have already been implemented in other minority regions, including expanded Mandarin education for Uyghurs in Xinjiang and the replacement of some Mongolian-language instruction with Mandarin in Inner Mongolia. "Minority communities that seek to maintain their culture will be pushed toward a double life of public conformity and private reservations," wrote James Leibold from La Trobe University and Tenzin Dorjee from the advocacy group Tibet Action Institute in Foreign Affairs magazine. The Associated Press last month joined a government-organized trip to Tibet, including stops in the regional capital, Lhasa, and the city of Shannan, where authorities arranged visits to palaces, Buddhist temples, tourist sites, local businesses and the eldercare center where Lhamo studies. Government officials accompanied the foreign journalists throughout the visit, and AP journalists were not free to move around or conduct reporting independently. The AP retained full editorial control of its content. Sponsor Message Reminders that Tibet is part of China are everywhere, from Chinese airport welcome messages and billboards promoting ethnic unity to Chinese national flags and President Xi Jinping portraits in public squares and buildings. Some Tibetans, like Lhamo, have found ways to embrace their language and identity, even as critics say the new law pushes China's majority Han culture. In Tibet, that can mean studying the Tibetan script, speaking it at home and with family members, preserving traditional weaving and attending Buddhist rituals. Elderly residents perform tai chi near the portrait of Chinese President Xi Jinping and other Chinese leaders at the Chengguan District Day Care Center for the Elderly in western China's Tibet autonomous region on July 20, 2026, as seen during a government-organized visit for foreign journalists. Ng Han Guan/AP hide caption toggle caption Ng Han Guan/AP At these religious sites in Tibet, no signs or references to the Dalai Lama At the Jokhang Temple, one of Tibet's holiest religious sites, Tibetans and Han Chinese visited. Some rested outside. Most people in Tibet practice Tibetan Buddhism. "As a Tibetan, I think it's important to preserve our language and our culture," said Qongqiu Quco, a 19-year-old student who came with her aunts, some of them Buddhist nuns. "Everyone in our ethnic group hopes that our culture can be passed down to future generations," said Quco, an aspiring teacher who speaks Tibetan much of the time. But at school, she noted, students speak different Tibetan dialects, so they use Mandarin. For Tibetan Buddhists, the Dalai Lama is their spiritual leader. But at Jokhang Temple, there are no signs or references to the current Dalai Lama, who has lived in exile since fleeing to India after a failed 1959 uprising against Chinese rule. The succession of the 14th Dalai Lama, who established a government-in-exile unrecognized by Beijing, has become one of the most contentious issues surrounding Tibet. The Dalai Lama has said his successor could be born outside China and that only his office has the authority to recognize his reincarnation. Beijing says the selection must comply with Chinese law and receive government approval. China has long accused the Dalai Lama of promoting separatism. Sponsor Message The Potala Palace, one of Tibet's most revered sites and once the winter residence of the Dalai Lamas, also had no public reference to the current leader. Thousands visit daily — tourists from across China and local Buddhist believers who pray and leave offerings, including money. Today, the Chinese national flag flies there. Tourists rest near a portrait of Chinese President Xi Jinping at a public square at the base of the Potala Palace in western China's Tibet autonomous region on July 21, 2026, during a government-organized visit for foreign journalists. Ng Han Guan/AP hide caption toggle caption Ng Han Guan/AP China's unity law 'codifies' a policy that's already playing out, an expert says Benno Weiner, a professor and historian on modern China and Tibet at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, said many effects of the policy shift have already been visible for years — particularly stripped-away education and language rights. "I don't think the law itself changes things," he said. "I think it sort of codifies and sort of summarizes a trend that's been going on." Beijing says the policies improve educational opportunities and ensure equal access for ethnic minorities. The same week as AP's government-organized trip, China's No. 4-ranked Communist Party leader, Wang Huning, toured Tibet, where he said the priority in governing the region was maintaining stability. He called for the implementation of the unity law and urged authorities to "guide Tibetan Buddhism to adapt to socialist society," according to a report by state news agency Xinhua. On its trip, AP visited a traditional Tibetan medicine facility; artisan workshops and cultural centers with traditional crafts, including ceramic making and textile weaving; and a Tibetan opera performance, where workers and performers spoke about the importance of preserving local traditions. Weiner noted that the Chinese government's approach to cultural preservation often emphasizes elements seen as less politically sensitive and suitable for tourism. "The parts of culture that they want to protect and maybe even enhance are the sort of anodyne or nondangerous clothing, certain celebrations that are not religious in many cases," he said. "Things that maybe not that coincidentally also attract tourists." Sponsor Message At the Tibet Museum, an exhibit highlights Tibet's historical links with Chinese dynasties over centuries, a narrative Beijing uses to argue that Tibet has long been part of China. Many Tibetans in exile dispute that, arguing that Tibet was independent for much of its history. Laba Ciren, the Communist Party's official in charge of the museum, spoke to journalists about the new law. "It only brings benefits and does not have any negative effects," he said. Billboards carry the law's message: Promote integration Access to Tibet is tightly restricted for foreigners. But for those who do arrive, a first observation — after the thinner air, with Lhasa Gonggar International Airport at 3,600 meters (11,800 feet) elevation — might be the official welcome messages. Some signs are written in Chinese and Tibetan. But outside the terminal, a large sign, in Chinese, says simply: "Xizang welcomes you." From highways to city streets in Lhasa and Shannan, billboards promoting ethnic unity are a constant presence. In part, one reads, in Mandarin and then Tibetan: "Forge a strong sense of community for the Chinese nation." In Lhasa, Lhamo retired 22 years ago. With her children grown, she tries to make it to classes at the center every day — writing, grammar, poetry — in part because she wasn't able to attend school as a child. "Our mother tongue is the Tibetan language," she said proudly. China Tibet Language identity Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Elections Progressives see biggest win yet in Michigan, while Trump flexes power over GOP World Hong Kong's 'sound of silence': 6 years under the national security law Common advice about kids' snacking is outdated. Here's what parents should know A veteran was detained by the National Guard in her front yard. Now she's suing Middle East The uncertain future of the foreign fighters who helped topple Syria's Assad Health Black lung rates in Appalachia are high as the 1970s, with thousands of miners sick More Stories From NPR Asia Ousted Bangladeshi leader vows to return from exile despite facing a death sentence Asia Pakistan's ruling party leads in Kashmir vote despite boycott call by banned group Asia Rare photos of ex-Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi give her family hope World, reordering South Korea ditches 'denuclearization-first' strategy. What will Pyongyang do next? Asia U.S. dollar weakens sharply against the Japanese yen after market interventions Asia A blaze on an Indonesian passenger ferry leaves at least 5 dead and dozens missing Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Elections Progressives see biggest win yet in Michigan, while Trump flexes power over GOP Health Black lung rates in Appalachia are high as the 1970s, with thousands of miners sick Health Dr. Erica Schwartz confirmed as CDC director, filling a leadership vacuum Law Judge reluctantly dismisses case against Oath Keepers militia group over Jan. 6 riot The Ripple Effect How Deadheads became rock and roll's greatest renewable resource National Arson suspect makes first court appearance as Spokane wildfires rage on NPR Editors' Picks World Cafe How Midwest doldrums became a gift for Kevin Morby Politics Progressive Abdul El-Sayed wins Michigan's Democratic primary for Senate Europe A Russian barrage in Ukraine's capital kills 17 as air defenses fall short Your Health Nicotine pouches can be marketed as 'lower risk' than cigarettes. Is that dangerous? National MLS named LAFC co-owner Larry Berg as its next commissioner. Here's what to know National Authorities arrested a man with ammo and apparently monitoring security at Trump golf course near LA Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices