Progressives' anti-AIPAC wave hits a snag in St. Louis - Live Updates - POLITICO Skip to Main Content Europe Pro E&E News Search Search WASHINGTON & POLITICS Congress White House Supreme Court and Legal Issues Magazine 2026 Elections Latest on POLITICO STATE POLITICS & POLICY California Florida New Jersey New York GLOBAL POLITICS & POLICY Brussels Canada United Kingdom France Germany Australia POLICY NEWS Food and Agriculture Cybersecurity Defense Education Energy and Climate Tax, Finance and the Economy Health Care Labor Tech Trade Transportation NEWSLETTERS Playbook West Wing Playbook Inside Congress POLITICO Forecast POLITICO Magazine All Newsletters COLUMNISTS Alex Burns Victoria Guida John Harris Debra Kahn Jonathan Martin Nahal Toosi All Columnists SERIES & MORE Inside Congress Live Breaking News Alerts Podcasts Video Matt Wuerker Cartoons Cartoon Carousel The POLITICO Poll POLITICO Live Events Follow us X Instagram Facebook LinkedIn My Account Log In Log Out Up next McMorrow backs El-Sayed Dems’ big primary test Aug 4, 2026 Live Democrats’ biggest primary is on a knife’s edge The race between Haley Stevens and Abdul El-Sayed — with the party’s direction hanging in the balance — is coming down to the final votes. First read Blowout progressive loss Latest McMorrow backs El-Sayed Rep. Tom Barrett on William Lawrence Michigan Senate class divide El-Sayed to speak soon Progressives’ first big win See All Posts POLITICO Playbook The unofficial guide to official Washington, every morning and weekday afternoons. Sign up Follow Us Live Democrats’ biggest primary is on a knife’s edge The race between Haley Stevens and Abdul El-Sayed — with the party’s direction hanging in the balance — is coming down to the final votes. ‹ Michigan Senate THE PROGRESSIVE El-Sayed THE MODERATE Stevens Michigan 7th THE PROGRESSIVE Lawrence THE MODERATES Brink Maasdam Michigan 13th THE PROGRESSIVE McKinney THE MODERATE Thanedar Missouri 1st THE PROGRESSIVE Bush THE MODERATE Bell › 2 weeks ago Progressives’ anti-AIPAC wave hits a snag in St. Louis Rep. Wesley Bell defeated Cori Bush for a second cycle in a row. Emilio Perez Ibarguen 08/04/2026, 9:40pm ET Updated: 08/04/2026, 10:03pm ET Share: Two years after former Rep. Cori Bush told the American Israel Political Affairs Committee she’d be back to “tear your kingdom down,” voters in Missouri’s 1st District again rejected her staunch criticisms of Israel and AIPAC. Rep. Wesley Bell (D-Mo.), who unseated Bush in a 2024 primary after she became one of the first members of Congress to call the Israel’s actions in Gaza in its war with Hamas a “genocide,” trounced the former member of “the Squad” on Tuesday night by a yawning margin. It’s a snag for Democratic progressives who have otherwise seen a slew of primary wins campaigning on ending military aid for Israel, and who have sought to make support from AIPAC into political poison. The race had some key differences from when they squared off two years ago. An AIPAC-backed super PAC still spent $2 million boosting Bell, but that was a far cry from the $9.3 million the group spent two years ago, according to data from ad tracker AdImpact. And Bush got no backup this year on the airwaves from the constellation of progressive groups that rallied to her cause in 2024. The size of Bell’s victory suggests that Democratic primary voters’ anger toward politicians who remain supportive of Israel isn’t limitless, despite public sentiment nationwide broadly moving against Israel . Bell, who has affirmed support for Israel’s relationship with the United States, beat Bush by about six points in 2024 and appears on track to win by even more. On Tuesday night, AIPAC reposted a POLITICO story about the fight over AIPAC in the district, writing simply: “Congratulations, Wesley Bell!” Bell also enjoyed the backing of establishment Democrats this year, including House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries and the Congressional Black Caucus PAC. Bush on the other hand, solidified her progressive bonafides with endorsements from Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and the Democratic Socialists of America. Lead Art: Tuesday's win by Rep. Wesley Bell (D-Mo.) is a snag for Democratic progressives who have otherwise seen a slew of primary wins campaigning on ending military aid for Israel. | David Dee Delgado/Getty Images Continue on to view the day's latest updates 2 weeks ago McMorrow endorses El-Sayed as he holds edge on Stevens “Whatever differences there were between the candidates in this race, those differences are nothing compared to the contrast in November,” she said. Aaron Pellish 08/05/2026, 2:41am ET Share: Michigan state Sen. Mallory McMorrow, who dropped out of the Democratic Senate race a month before the primary, endorsed Abdul El-Sayed as he maintained a narrow advantage over Rep. Haley Stevens early Wednesday morning. “I’m proud to give Abdul my full endorsement and support as we head to November together as a unified party,” she said in a statement. El-Sayed led Stevens by roughly two points at the time of McMorrow’s endorsement. Both candidates said early Wednesday morning the race would likely be decided later in the day. McMorrow urged Democrats to unite behind El-Sayed after a bruising primary that saw all three candidates trade personal attacks before she dropped out. “Take it from me — this was a brutal primary. But whatever differences there were between the candidates in this race, those differences are nothing compared to the contrast in November,” she said. McMorrow’s campaign ended after she failed to find a lane in between Stevens’ moderate campaign and El-Sayed’s progressive movement. But she garnered enough support in the state to earn tens of thousands of votes in Tuesday’s primary in a race that may likely be decided by a similar, if not smaller, margin. In her endorsement, McMorrow referred to El-Sayed as “winning” the Democratic nomination after some media outlets called the race for El-Sayed. The Associated Press has not yet projected a winner in the race. Lead Art: Michigan state Sen. Mallory McMorrow listens to questions from the media during the Michigan Democratic Party State Endorsement Convention on April 19, 2026, in Detroit. | Jose Juarez/AP 2 weeks ago GOP Rep. Tom Barrett isn’t underestimating progressive William Lawrence Lawrence won his primary Tuesday for Michigan’s battleground 7th District after the two more moderate candidates split the vote. Erin Doherty 08/05/2026, 1:09am ET Share: Incumbent Republican Rep. Tom Barrett says he won’t underestimate progressive Sunrise Movement co-founder William Lawrence as they battle for Michigan’s pivotal 7th District. “The two other candidates that ran just really didn’t take him seriously the entire time, we’re not going to make that same mistake,” Barrett told POLITICO after Lawrence secured the Democratic nomination. “We are not in any way going to be taking this for granted or taking it lightly.” Lawrence won his primary Tuesday after the two more moderate candidates split the vote, teeing up a test of progressive potency in a district that went for President Donald Trump by just over 1 percentage point in 2024. The district could ultimately decide the majority. Centrist Democrats have argued that Lawrence’s victory could jeopardize their chances of flipping the seat in November. And the progressive seems to be Republicans’ ideal pick to face off against: A GOP-linked super PAC spent money to elevate Lawrence during the primary. Lawrence, in an interview, dismissed concerns about his electability. “We have a broad based movement that is winning with significant margins across the district. We’re winning in Livingston County. We’re winning in Eden County, and, you know, this is so far beyond the city of Lansing,” he said. “And I feel confident that we’ll continue that into the general election.” Andrew Howard contributed reporting. Lead Art: Rep. Tom Barrett (R-Mich.) speaks before President Donald Trump at an event at the General Motors Proving Ground in Milford, Michigan, on July 27, 2026. | Paul Sancya/AP 2 weeks ago We’re seeing a class divide in the Michigan Senate results El-Sayed is performing better in places with higher incomes and levels of education. Stevens is doing better in more working-class areas. Jessica Piper 08/05/2026, 1:05am ET Share: As results continue to come in in Michigan’s hotly contested Senate race, there are clear divides emerging based on class. Former public health official Abdul El-Sayed is performing best in the state’s wealthiest and most highly educated areas — while Rep. Haley Stevens is doing better in places with lower average incomes and where fewer voters have college degrees. Among the nearly two dozen counties where at least 95 percent of expected ballots are in, El-Sayed is winning 58.4 percent of the vote in counties where at least 30 percent of adults have a bachelor’s degree, according to a POLITICO analysis of county-level results. On the flip side, Stevens is winning 51.4 percent of the vote in counties where less than 30 percent share of adults are college-educated. El-Sayed is similarly leading Stevens in counties with higher median incomes so far, while Stevens leads in lower-income counties. The early results reflect a trend seen elsewhere this year as Democrats debate how to win back working-class voters: At least in primaries, progressive politicians have performed best among wealthier and highly educated voters, while moderate Democrats still perform better in lower-income and less educated areas. An exception in Michigan is Oakland County, among the most highly educated in the state, which is split roughly evenly between El-Sayed and Stevens with a bit over 90 percent of the county vote in. Most of the county is in Stevens’ current congressional district. Lead Art: A flag and voting sign hang on a fence on primary election day at Salina Intermediate School in Dearborn, Michigan, on Aug. 4, 2026. | Jamie Kelter Davis for POLITICO 2 weeks ago | DETROIT Abdul El-Sayed will address supporters by 1 a.m. Michigan’s high-profile Senate race has yet to be called. Adam Wren 08/05/2026, 12:09am ET Share: Democratic Michigan Senate candidate Abdul El-Sayed will speak in the next hour at Majestic Theatre in downtown Detroit, where he’s holding a watch party, an emcee just announced. Progressives had been expecting a decisive and early victory in the high-profile race, but the closer-than-anticipated margins are causing some of them to worry . Lead Art: Supporters arrive for Democratic U.S. Senate candidate Abdul El-Sayed's election night watch party at Majestic Theater in Detroit, Michigan, on Aug. 4, 2026. | Jamie Kelter Davis for POLITICO 2 weeks ago Progressives score a swing-district win as moderates split the vote Sunrise Movement co-founder William Lawrence won nomination to face GOP Rep. Tom Barrett as two more-moderate Democrats split the vote. Andrew Howard 08/05/2026, 12:05am ET Share: Progressives just notched their first big win of the night with Sunrise Movement co-founder William Lawrence’s victory in a Lansing-based swing seat — but it was only possible because two more-moderate candidates split the vote after refusing to get out of each other’s way. Former Ambassador to Ukraine Bridget Brink and former Navy SEAL Matt Maasdam had more votes combined — 56 percent — than Lawrence’s 43 percent when the Associated Press called the race just before 11:30 p.m. Eastern. With neither willing to bow out, Lawrence was able to pull off a win — and give Republicans their preferred opponent in the battleground race against Rep. Tom Barrett (R-Mich). “If he wins, we’re done,” one Democratic operative said of Lawrence last week . Maasdam accused Brink of being a “spoiler” last week, leading EMILYs List president Jessica Mackler, who supported Brink, to say he “should take some responsibility for his own actions before telling a qualified woman to drop out.” Their unwillingness to consolidate moderate support is already causing headaches for the party. “The MI-07 Democratic primary is shaping up to be one of those ‘two people’s egos and campaign consultants caused the lefty candidate to win the primary’ situations in an essentially must-flip district for Democrats,” progressive Democratic pollster Adam Carlson said on X as results came in. Lead Art: House candidate William Lawrence speaks at a rally with Senate candidate Abdul El-Sayed, Sen. Bernie Sanders and Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in Lansing, Michigan, on July 19, 2026. | Andrew Roth/Sipa USA via AP 2 weeks ago Progressives dreamed of Michigan domination. Now they’re sweating a tight Senate race. Early returns in Michigan and the results in Missouri are not as decisive for the Democratic Party’s left flank as they’d hoped. By Aaron Pellish and Erin Doherty 08/04/2026, 11:49pm ET Share: Progressives wanted to have won by now. They were expecting a decisive and early victory in Michigan’s high-profile Senate race. Now, the closer-than-anticipated margins are giving some progressives heartburn — and moderate Democrats reason for cautious optimism. Bhaskar Sunkara, a 2020 Bernie Sanders surrogate and former DSA vice chair, told POLITICO that he had his hopes up after recent polling showed progressive former public health official Abdul El-Sayed with a lead. Still, he said: “Any win is good, as long as it’s called tonight.” One Democratic operative and El-Sayed supporter working on progressive campaigns in Michigan said they were “staying calm” and not panicking yet. “Abdul not off track but not knocking it out of the park right now,” the operative texted, granted anonymity to speak candidly. “It seems like it’s going to be close,” said a second El-Sayed backer, granted anonymity to speak candidly. “It’s all about can Abdul stay relatively competitive with Black voters in Wayne County and if he can fight Haley to a draw in Oakland County,” which is her home turf. Michigan’s Senate race will offer the clearest measure yet of the ideological direction of the Democratic Party, testing the relative power of the party’s progressive and moderate wings in a key battleground — with major implications for 2028. In the contest’s closing stretch, public polling showed El-Sayed leading Stevens by a wide, double-digit margin. But whether tonight’s results amount to a progressive wave, a rebuke of the movement’s viability — or a muddied combination of the two possible outcomes — still remains unanswered. Some Democrats admonished El-Sayed’s progressive allies for swaggering into Election Day, claiming his campaign’s bluster inflated expectations. A third Democratic operative granted anonymity to speak candidly blamed El-Sayed for attending a pool party with progressive streamer Hasan Piker on Monday, hours before polls opened. “These guys are unbelievably cocky,” the person said. “If the result is close tonight, there should be some real reflection. These guys have fucked up the expectations game.” Several centrist Democrats, meanwhile, are encouraged by Stevens outperforming expectations, even as they resign themselves to El-Sayed’s front-runner status. “Haley’s over performing in a few places, but no one is expecting a miracle,” said a fourth Democratic operative, who is working to elect moderate candidates and was granted anonymity to speak candidly. Progressive William Lawrence won the nomination in Michigan’s 7th District, but only because two more-moderate candidates split the vote among their wing of the party. Moderate Democrats were also fortified by Rep. Wesley Bell’s decisive victory over former Rep. Cori Bush, a high-profile DSA-backed progressive who threatened to avenge her 2024 primary loss to Bell, earlier in the night. “It’s a great reminder that while the attention is being dominated by Michigan, there are vital races happening elsewhere in which moderates are defeating radicals,” the fourth Democratic operative said. Will Steakin, Lisa Kashinsky and Adam Wren contributed to this report. Lead Art: A woman prays as supporters gather for Democratic U.S. Senate candidate Abdul El-Sayed's election night watch party at Majestic Theater in Detroit, Michigan, on Aug. 4, 2026. | Jamie Kelter Davis for POLITICO 2 weeks ago Sunrise Movement co-founder William Lawrence wins Michigan battleground House primary The progressive defeated two moderate opponents and will face Rep. Tom Barrett (R-Mich.) in November. Andrew Howard 08/04/2026, 11:24pm ET Share: Progressive Sunrise Movement co-founder William Lawrence won the Democratic primary to take on GOP Rep. Tom Barrett in a battleground Michigan House race. His general election campaign will be one of the biggest tests for whether progressives can win in purple territory: President Donald Trump won the Lansing-based district by just one percentage point in 2024. In Lawrence, Republicans got their preferred opponent in November. A GOP-linked group spent heavily on last-minute ads to elevate his candidacy , as Republicans continue to prefer further-left candidates that they can cast as out of touch with the mainstream. Lawrence spent much of the primary attacking data center development, and he was bolstered by endorsements from progressive stalwarts including Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Rep. Ro Khanna (D-Calif.). Lawrence’s victory in Michigan’s 7th District — which could be key to deciding the House majority — was boosted by the fact his two more-moderate challengers split the vote. Former Navy SEAL Matt Maasdam and former Ambassador to Ukraine Bridget Brink both had warned that Lawrence becoming the Democratic nominee will make it harder for the party to flip the crucial seat in November, pointing to the Republican-linked group that sought to elevate Lawrence . But Democratic voters ignored those warnings to choose Lawrence. Lead Art: U.S. House candidate William Lawrence speaks at a rally with U.S. Senate candidate Abdul El-Sayed, U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders and U.S. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in Lansing, Michigan, on July 19, 2026. | Andrew Roth/Sipa USA via AP 2 weeks ago Kansas just affirmed that abortion politics still matter Voters rejected a measure that was yet another ploy to restrict the right to abortion in the state. Irie Sentner 08/04/2026, 11:23pm ET Share: Voters in the red state overwhelmingly rejected a referendum designed to overturn Kansas’ constitutional right to abortion on Tuesday. The Legislature’s GOP supermajority had attempted to amend the Kansas constitution to change the way the state’s Supreme Court justices are chosen. It was an effort to fill the bench with more conservatives after a slate of rulings that roiled Republican lawmakers, most notably a 2019 decision upholding the right to abortion. Voters dismissed that amendment by more than 25 percentage points. Tuesday’s result is reminiscent of the state’s 2022 referendum, months after the U.S. Supreme Court struck down Roe v. Wade , which saw Kansas voters uphold abortion rights by nearly 20 percentage points. It indicates that access to the procedure remains a salient political issue years later. Kansas borders several states that ban abortion and has become a destination for women seeking the procedure. The state’s rejection of the measure comes the same day leaked audio emerged of a private call in which Todd Blanche, President Donald Trump’s attorney general nominee, told a religious group that the White House is working “to get permanent solutions so the Dobbs decision becomes permanent in every single state.” Opponents of the measure had worried that if the referendum was successful, it could inspire other states to follow — potentially setting up a nationwide judicial arms race . Lead Art: Dr. Elizabeth Brett Daily (left) walks with a patient after providing a medical abortion at a Planned Parenthood clinic in Kansas City, Kansas, on Oct. 12, 2022. | Charlie Riedel/AP 2 weeks ago | From Detroit Hasan Piker is upbeat about Abdul El-Sayed — and the trajectory of the left-wing movement Adam Wren 08/04/2026, 10:53pm ET Share: Far-left Twitch streamer Hasan Piker is at Abdul El-Sayed’s Senate election party at the Majestic Theater in Detroit — and was feeling confident about the race’s results as early numbers rolled in. Before the margins began tightening between El-Sayed and primary foe Rep. Haley Stevens, Piker told POLITICO : “I’m doing pretty good — as you can probably tell.” Here’s what he had to say about the race, the state, the movement and 2028. Q: Do you think you had a material effect on helping Abdul take the lead in this primary? It wasn’t my material impact, but more so the missteps made by Third Way and numerous other think tanks, Mallory McMorrow’s campaign and even Haley Stevens’ campaign that turned this otherwise sleepy race with national significance into one that everybody couldn’t stop paying attention to. But the reality of the matter is there are good candidates out there, there are bad candidates out there. Abdul El-Sayed is a phenomenal communicator, and most importantly he ran an issue-first campaign from the start all the way to the finish of his primaries. And that is precisely the reason why, when people started paying attention, they realized there was something different here. And I think we are seeing the results of that right now here tonight. Michigan responded in exactly the way I thought they would. Q: If Abdul wins tonight, do you see yourself as a power broker in the same way he sees himself as a power broker in 2028? I wouldn’t say I’m a power broker. This entire thing started when people started saying I’m the Joe Rogan of the left. I said I’m not the Joe Rogan of the left. Then they said, “We don’t want a Joe Rogan of the left, it turns out. His policies are too radical.” Now people call me a kingmaker. I’m not. I’m just fortunate enough to be a part of a much larger movement that places the interest of the working class over the interests of corporations and foreign countries. That’s all this is about. Q: Do you see a progressive lane materializing that goes through Michigan for 2028 after tonight? Absolutely. But it’s not just Michigan. This is just the beginning. These were never supposed to be swing states and they never will be swing states ever again if I have something to do with it. It’s not just Michigan. It’s not just Wisconsin. We will hopefully continue this movement all across the United States of America. Q: In that progressive lane for 2028, would you be more inclined to back Shawn Fain of the UAW or AOC? That’s too far out in the distance. I love both of them. I have a lot of respect and admiration for both of them. It’s entirely dependent on who wants to seize on this opportunity. CORRECTION: An earlier headline on this blog post misspelled Hasan Piker's first name. Lead Art: Abdul El-Sayed, a progressive candidate in the Democratic primary for U.S. Senate in Michigan (center left) talks poolside with streamer Hasan Piker (center right) at a party for content creators supporting his campaign, Aug. 3, 2026, in Detroit. | Julia Demaree Nikhinson/AP 2 weeks ago Why Michigan’s Senate race might come down to the wire Very few votes have come in from Wayne County, home to Detroit and Dearborn. Jessica Piper 08/04/2026, 10:34pm ET Share: Michigan’s Democratic Senate primary was hotly contested until the end. And it may take nearly every vote counted before we get a call — with the state’s largest population center still outstanding hours after polls closed. With a bit shy of 30 percent votes counted according to the Associated Press, former public health official Abdul El-Sayed narrowly leads Rep. Haley Stevens by about five points. El-Sayed is performing especially well in highly educated suburban areas, including his home county of Washtenaw and Stevens’ home county of Oakland. But Stevens is winning rural counties across the state, keeping the race close for now. The biggest question is Wayne County. Relatively few votes have been counted so far from the county, which usually accounts for roughly 1 in 5 Democratic votes in Michigan. The county includes the city of Detroit, where Stevens is expecting a boost from Black voters, as well as predominantly Arab American cities such as Dearborn and Hamtramck, where El-Sayed could put up big numbers. The margins and turnout in those places could be determinative. Results are also still mostly outstanding in Ingham County, which includes the state capital of Lansing, and in a handful of rural counties scattered across the state. In a close race like this one, all of those votes will matter. Lead Art: Voting stickers line at table at the Baldwin Public Library on primary election day in Birmingham, Michigan, on Aug. 4, 2026. | Jamie Kelter Davis for POLITICO 2 weeks ago Populist Cindy Holscher beats establishment pick for Kansas Democratic gubernatorial primary Holscher’s victory is a blow to outgoing Gov. Laura Kelly, who backed her opponent. Liz Crampton 08/04/2026, 10:24pm ET Share: State Sen. Cindy Holscher won the Democratic gubernatorial primary in Kansas on Tuesday, a resounding defeat for establishment Democrats as they seek to hold onto the governor’s mansion. Holscher defeated state Sen. Ethan Corson, who earned the endorsements of influential Kansas Democrats, including twice elected, term-limited Gov. Laura Kelly, and amassed a sizable war chest. Holscher now heads into what’s expected to be a tough general election fight. She faces Republican Ty Masterson — the state Senate president endorsed by President Donald Trump — who easily clinched the GOP nomination in a crowded field. Republicans are eyeing the Kansas governor’s race as a top pickup opportunity in a state Trump won three times — and they’re preparing to spend substantial sums to capture the governor’s mansion after eight years under Kelly. Both Holscher and Corson are moderates, but Holscher embraced economic populism and called for a moratorium on data center development. That issue became a defining line in the primary, with Corson staking out a more middle-of-the-road approach that welcomed data centers, so long as they were approved by local communities and with regulations on water usage and tax burdens. Lead Art: Kansas state Sen. Cindy Holscher speaks during a news conference at the Statehouse in Topeka, Kansas, on Jan. 12, 2023. | John Hanna/AP 2 weeks ago State Sen. Rick Brattin wins GOP primary in newly gerrymandered Missouri seat Brattin will face Democratic Rep. Emanuel Cleaver in a seat Republicans made redder through redistricting last year. Andrew Howard 08/04/2026, 10:13pm ET Share: Marine veteran and GOP state Sen. Rick Brattin will take on Democratic Rep. Emanuel Cleaver in Missouri’s newly-gerrymandered 5th District, making him a likely new member of Congress this fall. Brattin, who has served on and off in the state legislature since 2011, bested a crowded Republican field on Tuesday, boosted by an eleventh-hour endorsement from President Donald Trump and support from GOP Gov. Mike Kehoe. Brattin and several other Republicans in the crowded primary spent much of the race battling to be seen as the most conservative candidate. He dubbed himself a “MAGA warrior” in campaign advertising , flexing his pro-gun and anti-abortion stances. Missouri Republicans passed a new Congressional map last September that carved up Cleaver’s district, making it a likely pickup for the GOP in November. The map has survived repeated legal challenges despite Democrats’ best efforts to block it. There is still a chance that Missouri takes up a statewide referendum to block the gerrymander, but appears for now that the newly drawn district will stand at least for the next Congress — and that Brattin will be headed to Washington. Lead Art: Missouri state Sen. Rick Brattin holds up posters showing how much of the Senate's time has been consumed by them and other Freedom Caucus members at the state Capitol in Jefferson City, on Jan. 25, 2024. | David A. Lieb/AP 2 weeks ago Rep. Wesley Bell defeats progressive Cori Bush for second time It’s a significant win for the pro-Israel lobby, which spent millions to boost Bell in Missouri’s 1st District. Cheyanne M. Daniels 08/04/2026, 9:04pm ET Share: Rep. Wesley Bell has defeated Cori Bush in a primary rematch that was defined by clashes over Israel. A former county prosecutor who unseated Bush in 2024, Bell won Tuesday’s rematch for Missouri’s 1st District with heavy financial backing from the ⁠American Israel Public Affairs Committee, which spent more than $2 million on his behalf. Bell’s win over Bush, a progressive and former “Squad” member, was a victory not only for the pro-Israel lobby but also for the establishment wing of the Democratic Party: House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries and the Congressional Black Caucus PAC had endorsed the representative. Bell is expected to sail to victory in November in the blue St. Louis-area stronghold. Lead Art: Rep. Wesley Bell (D-Mo.) visits with supporters at a polling station visit on primary election day in St. Louis, on Aug. 4, 2026. | Michael Thomas/AP 2 weeks ago | FROM DEARBORN, MICHIGAN El-Sayed promises a big tent — and predicts a big win in November The Michigan Senate Democrat, on primary day, predicted he’ll beat Republican Mike Rogers “by seven.” Adam Wren 08/04/2026, 8:05pm ET Share: Abdul El-Sayed is trying to cast a big tent as the Democratic civil war rages around him. If he wins his Senate primary tonight over Rep. Haley Stevens (D-Mich.), it will likely be because he attracted some normie Democrats to his cause — even if that’s not how he’d describe them. “I don’t know what a normie Democrat is,” he told POLITICO at a polling place at Salina Intermediate School in Dearborn. “I think most Democrats want to see money out of politics, money in your pocket, and Medicare for all. I think this factional thing that we’re talking about just is not consistent with what I’ve been hearing on the ground for the better part of 15 months where I’ve traveled. People are sick and tired of not being able to afford their groceries or pay their rent or believe they could ever own a home. I think that’s true of all Democrats.” He added that frustration crossed party lines — and predicted a solid general-election win in the swing state as a result: “Frankly, I think that’s true of Republicans, which is why I’m going to beat Mike Rogers by seven.” Lead Art: Democratic U.S. Senate candidate Abdul El-Sayed visits a polling place and speaks with supporters and members of the media on primary election day at Salina Intermediate School in Dearborn, Michigan, on Aug. 4, 2026. | Jamie Kelter Davis for POLITICO 2 weeks ago Amid progressive surge, Blue Dogs double down The centrist Democrats are expanding their battleground map. In some cases they even overlap with Sen. Bernie Sanders’ endorsements. Samuel Benson 08/04/2026, 7:53pm ET Share: Even in the heat of DSA Summer , Democratic centrists are feeling cool. Ahead of several primaries in Michigan, Missouri and Washington state that will help define the direction of the party, the Blue Dog Coalition is throwing its weight behind working-class champions — and in some cases, crossing over with the party’s progressive wing. “Most voters in America are working class, and most voters in America are not socialists,” said Phil Gardner, senior adviser at Blue Dog Action. “So we think there should be a part of the Democratic Party that is advocating for the working class without socialism.” The Blue Dogs’ leadership PAC will endorse six additional candidates next week, bringing their total endorsee list to 12 — and in some cases overlapping with Sen. Bernie Sanders’ (I-Vt.) endorsements as they seek to find Democrats with cross-faction appeal in districts President Donald Trump won in 2024. The list, reported first by POLITICO, includes Zach Dembo in Kentucky’s 6th District; Sam Forstag in Montana’s 1st; Blake Gendebien in New York’s 21st; Leela Gray in Florida’s 13th; Jo Mendoza in Arizona’s 6th; and Brian Poindexter in Ohio’s 7th. Forstag, a union leader and smokejumper, and Poindexter, a union ironworker, have leaned on their working class bona fides to garner support from both progressives like Sanders and centrists like the Blue Dogs. Two other Blue Dog-backed candidates — Bob Brooks in Pennsylvania’s 7th District and Rebecca Cooke in Wisconsin’s 3rd District — also have Sanders’ support. “It does not need to be a zero-sum game,” said Rep. Marie Gluesenkamp Perez (D-Wash.) in an interview Tuesday evening. “The point here is about loyalty to place. It’s not about a flight to the left. … When we show up as normal people living in the same water as everybody else in our districts, in our communities, we win.” Gluesenkamp Perez is locked in her own tense battle for reelection. If she fends off a progressive challenger to finish in the top two of her nonpartisan primary Tuesday night, she will punctuate a cycle in which all Blue Dog incumbents have survived their primaries. Lead Art: Rep. Marie Gluesenkamp Perez, D-Wash., speaks during a town hall event at Centralia College, Tuesday, April 22, 2025, in Centralia, Wash. | Lindsey Wasson/AP 2 weeks ago Democrats’ direction-defining primaries in Michigan and Missouri come to head tonight The Michigan Senate race, in particular, will reveal the power of the left flank — and whether the party can come together in time for November. Jessica Piper 08/04/2026, 7:08pm ET Share: The Democratic Party’s fractures will be on full display tonight. Whether they can be remedied will determine how the party does in November and beyond. After months of flaying each other in Michigan’s divisive Senate primary, either Rep. Haley Stevens (D-Mich.) or former public health official Abdul El-Sayed will have just three months to win over the other’s supporters in order to defeat former GOP Rep. Mike Rogers and help Democrats’ chances of taking back the Senate. It’s a trend that has played out across the map as Democratic primaries have exposed the party’s major divisions on issues from Israel to “Medicare for All” — and left scars on the eventual winners. To win back power in Washington and statehouses, the party will need to find a way past those divisions. That means the work is just beginning for whoever wins in Michigan tonight. Some moderate Democrats “are going to have a harder time supporting Abdul versus supporting Mike Rogers,” said Angela Rogensues, a city council member from Warren, Michigan, and a Democratic National Committee member who endorsed Stevens last year. Stevens would face a different problem, Rogensues said: Arab Americans and other progressive voters who disagreed with her on Israel in the primary. “I think that is going to be a really difficult thing for folks to believe that they will be fairly represented, and just choose to not vote in that race,” she said. Democrats’ goal of taking back the Senate in November all but requires the party to win in Michigan. But they’ve been busier attacking each other than Rogers, focusing on the American Israel Public Affairs Committee’s involvement in the race and taking personal jabs. El-Sayed described Stevens as a “suit with a large AIPAC bank account” and said he hoped AIPAC would “find some way to teach her how to string together two coherent sentences.” Stevens has said El-Sayed wants to be a “celebrity” and accused him of blaming his problems on Jewish Americans. The AIPAC-linked super PAC, United Democracy Project, has accused El-Sayed of having a “long history of disrespecting women.” Those are all attacks that Republicans might be eager to reprise in the general election. Lon Johnson, former chair of the Michigan Democratic Party, said the party managed to come together successfully after “very aggressive” primaries in the past. “It will take some leadership from both candidates, a winning candidate and a losing candidate,” he said. The race is the marquee matchup in a series of tests for the direction of the Democratic Party: In Michigan’s 7th District, progressive Sunrise Movement co-founder Will Lawrence is trying to beat two moderate opponents. In Michigan’s 13th District, incumbent Rep. Shri Thanedar is trying to defend against democratic socialist state Rep. Donavan McKinney. And in Missouri’s 1st District, former “Squad” member Cori Bush is trying to make a comeback . Follow along here for breaking news and analysis. Lead Art: Voters cast their ballots at the Baldwin Public Library on primary election day in Birmingham, Michigan, on Aug. 4, 2026. | Jamie Kelter Davis for POLITICO About Us Advertising Breaking News Alerts Careers Credit Card Payments FAQ Feedback Headlines Photos Press Request A Correction Write For Us RSS Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information and Opt Out of Targeted Advertising © 2026 POLITICO LLC