See the Sun like never before with most detailed images yet - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Science See the Sun like never before with most detailed images yet Figure caption, See through the eyes of the world's most powerful solar telescope as it zooms in on the Sun's surface (NSF/NSO/AURA/MPS) By Victoria Gill Science correspondent Published 6 hours ago Scientists using the world's most powerful solar telescope have captured the surface of our Sun in new, unprecedented detail. Images and footage show "whirlpools" of activity that it has not been possible to see before. It is the Sun's magnetic field being twisted and moved by the motion of hot gas. That constant swirling is a driving force behind bursts of energy from the Sun, creating so-called space weather, that can disrupt Earth's power grids and satellites, and could even injure astronauts. "The Sun is the source of that energy and of all of that space weather," explained Dr David Boboltz from the US National Solar Observatory , external (NSO). Capturing more detailed pictures of our solar system's star will help in responding to that weather, he said. "To figure out and eventually predict space weather, we want to understand the physics of the Sun, all the way down to the smallest scales." Image source, NSF/NSO/AURA/MPS Image caption, These are the highest-resolution images of the Sun's surface, or photosphere, that have ever been captured The findings, published in the journal Nature , external , were made possible by the Inouye Solar Telescope - a facility built on a high peak in Hawaii, where clear blue skies are free of dust. Zooming in on the Sun's surface, the team captured a detailed view of swirling vortices. NSO astronomer Dr David Kuridze, told BBC News: "These twisting motions are creating magnetic energy, which can build up to produce those large-scale explosions." Image source, NASA/SDO Image caption, The scientists say they have captured the driving force behind sudden blasts of solar plasma and magnetic fields that the Sun sends into space Explosive space weather The term for what the scientists have discovered on the Sun is "Kelvin-Helmholtz instability". The phenomenon happens when fluids - in this case hot gases - slide past each other and cause small disturbances to grow into spiralling vortices. In the ocean, it helps explain how ripples become giant, powerful waves. Dr Friedrich Woeger, also from the NSO, explained that finding it on the Sun's surface not only explained the dynamics behind space weather, but even why the surface of the Sun is so hot. It shows how energy is transported upwards. "Once there's enough energy wound up in the higher layers, it can then be released, as a flare or what's known as a coronal mass ejection," he said. Image source, NASA Image caption, An image of the Sun captured by NASA which shows ejections Boboltz added that, as well as the practical need to understand and protect ourselves from space weather, the new findings were a reminder that the Sun is a "unique laboratory". "It's our closest star," he said. "And it can help us understand some very basic laws of physics. "The first experimental proof of Einstein's general relativity came from solar eclipse observations. "So simply for human knowledge," he added, "we need to have experiments like this". Image source, NSF National Solar Observatory Image caption, The NSF Inouye Solar Telescope sits on a high peak, above the clouds Related topics Science & Environment Astronomy Space exploration The Sun More on this story First celestial image unveiled from revolutionary telescope Published 23 June 2025 UK's iconic Jodrell Bank telescope faces axe in science cuts Published 27 July The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia 0:50 Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea. 00:00:50, play video Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea 1:01 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller. 00:01:01, play video 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:49 Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales. 00:00:49, play video Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales 0:59 The city closing down streets so children can play. 00:00:59, play video The city closing down streets so children can play 1:23 The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII. 00:01:23, play video The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII 1:30 What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK. 00:01:30, play video What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK 0:37 Crispy butter beans with whipped feta. 00:00:37, play video Crispy butter beans with whipped feta 0:57 Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites. 00:00:57, play video Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport Top stories Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate Published 1 hour ago Infantino remains Fifa president after executive meeting Published 22 minutes ago Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London Published 5 hours ago More to explore The cost of being single – and how friends are teaming up to beat it From flip flops to fisherman's sandals: How to look after your feet this summer 'My grandmother subjected my baby to female genital mutilation behind my back' 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' Kate Nash on Irish history, heritage and covering Sinéad O'Connor There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media 'This year has been the worst for my heat anxiety' Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Love shouldn't feel like fear How hydrated do you really need to be? Melvin Odoom on the MiniDiscs he can't throw away The origin story of the first Comic Con Most read 1 University of Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 2 Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London 3 See the Sun like never before with most detailed images yet 4 El-Sayed's victory sends tremors through Democratic Party 5 Family 'devastated' by death of girl, 9, as man charged with murder 6 Iran says it has agreed Strait of Hormuz shipping route with Oman 7 Student loan repayment rates an 'unsustainable burden', chancellor told 8 Apology after carer fed dog food to elderly woman by mistake 9 Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate 10 Drone carrying explosives found at German airport, police say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.