Japan’s prime minister tours earthquake-hit sites as recovery efforts hampered by soaring temperatures | Japan | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 4 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Haruto Kubo holds his pet dog Miku, outside a house that collapsed in an earthquake with a magnitude of 7.1 that struck Japan's southern Kumamoto prefecture. Photograph: Kim Kyung-Hoon/Reuters View image in fullscreen Haruto Kubo holds his pet dog Miku, outside a house that collapsed in an earthquake with a magnitude of 7.1 that struck Japan's southern Kumamoto prefecture. Photograph: Kim Kyung-Hoon/Reuters Japan Japan’s prime minister tours earthquake-hit sites as recovery efforts hampered by soaring temperatures Prime minister Sanae Takaichi visited Kumamoto prefecture almost a week after a magnitude 7.1 quake hit, killing 38 people Associated Press Mon 3 Aug 2026 20.59 EDT Last modified on Mon 3 Aug 2026 22.09 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Japan’s prime minister, Sanae Takaichi, has visited the south-western prefecture of Kumamoto, where recovery efforts are being hampered by heat and a lack of water supplies, almost a week after a magnitude 7.1 earthquake killed dozens and caused widespread damage. Thirty-eight people died during the quake , including one person who died of apparent heatstroke while taking shelter in a car in hot weather, officials said on Monday. ‘The shaking was terrifying’: stories of survival and loss emerge after Japan earthquake Read more Residents put out heaps of debris, broken furniture and damaged appliances for collection, while in the towns of Uki and Hikawa, construction of temporary housing began. Some hotels and inns were offering their rooms for evacuees. More than 46,000 households remain without water and many also face fuel shortages as the region suffers sweltering heat, stoking fears of heat-related illness. Temperatures were as high as 40C in the country’s south on Monday. More than 8,500 people remain at crowded emergency shelters in converted community centres, school gyms and classrooms, many of which lack airconditioning. Others are sleeping in cars at town hall parking lots and parks, or outside their homes. View image in fullscreen Sanae Takaichi greets evacuees in Hikawa in the southern Kumamoto prefecture after a major earthquake hit. Photograph: undefined/Japan Pool/Kyodo News/AP Takaichi on Monday flew over the affected areas from an army helicopter and visited one of the area’s best-equipped shelters, with cardboard beds, partitions and airconditioning, triggering criticism on social media that her visit distorted reality. The governor of Kumamoto, Takashi Kimura, in his meeting with Takaichi, stressed the “abnormal heat” over recent days. He said he sought further government support to improve the conditions at evacuation centres, saying many of them lacked clean water and medical care. “While taking into consideration the governor’s requests, we will quickly examine what the government can do for the disaster-hit region and affected people and move proactively,” Takaichi said. View image in fullscreen A house is seen collapsed onto a car in Hikawa. Photograph: AFP/Getty Images Meanwhile, a company that owned a general store in the shopping mall that collapsed during last weeks earthquake , acknowledged that it had instructed two employees to return to the building to put sales proceeds into a safe, where they were killed in an explosion that followed the quake. Two executives of Habita, a local general store operator that had a shop inside the collapsed Aeon mall in the town of Kashima, attended the wake on Sunday of one of the two victims, 22-year-old Kurumi Otake, and apologised to her parents for the death. View image in fullscreen Vehicles wait in line to transport disaster debris to a temporary storage site in Hikawa, amid sweltering temperatures. Photograph: Jiji Press/EPA Company sales manager Goji Yuse acknowledged that the company instructed the two to put sales proceeds into the safe if it was possible. “I wish someone had stopped her,” Otake’s tearful mother told them. “My daughter is not coming back.” The mall’s operator said it believes the explosion was due to a gas leak and occurred after about 3,000 shoppers had been evacuated to a parking lot after the quake, but some employees remained inside. Rescuers recovered five people and the bodies of seven others from the mall. Explore more on these topics Japan Sanae Takaichi Earthquakes Asia Pacific news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)