Qdoba removes jalapeños from restaurants as CDC warns of salmonella outbreak in 27 states - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Cyberattacks World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds Watch CBS News HealthWatch Qdoba removes jalapeños from restaurants as CDC warns of salmonella outbreak in 27 states By Kiki Intarasuwan Kiki Intarasuwan News Editor Kiki Intarasuwan is a news editor for CBS News & Stations. Read Full Bio Kiki Intarasuwan Updated on: August 5, 2026 / 8:12 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Restaurant chain Qdoba has followed Chipotle in removing jalapeños from its locations amid a salmonella outbreak that has affected at least 27 states, according to health officials. The Mexican fast-casual restaurant said Wednesday it was cooperating with public health authorities as they investigate the outbreak linked to jalapeño peppers grown in Sinaloa, Mexico. The peppers were distributed by Coast Citrus Distributors to wholesale and restaurants, including Qdoba and Chipotle, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said. "Out of an abundance of caution, we have proactively removed jalapeños from all our restaurants at this time," San Diego-based Qdoba said in a statement. "We take any report involving guest health seriously and are committed to responding appropriately based on the facts and guidance from public health authorities." Since Qdoba and Chipotle removed the affected products, the CDC said, "neither of these establishments are considered a current ongoing risk to consumers in this outbreak." At least 345 people across 27 states have been sickened with the strain of Salmonella Javiana linked to the jalapeños, 36 of whom have been hospitalized, the CDC said Wednesday. No deaths have been reported. The majority of cases are in Colorado and Minnesota, with each reporting at least 110. Other cases have been reported in Alabama, Arkansas, California, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Missouri, Montana, North Carolina, North Dakota, Nebraska, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington, Wisconsin and Wyoming. The CDC said the Food and Drug Administration was working to determine whether the jalapeños went to grocery stores. The CDC urged consumers to check with the place of purchase to confirm the source of their jalapeño peppers. Coast Citrus Distributors agreed to recall the remaining product implicated in the outbreak, the FDA said. On Tuesday, Chipotle announced it pulled jalapeños linked to the salmonella outbreak in Minnesota and said that it has replaced the peppers with product from another grower. The Minnesota Department of Health said of the 84 Minnesotans interviewed as part of its investigation, 75 reported eating at Chipotle. The agency said the customers ate at the restaurant between June 14 and July 14, with most eating there between June 24 and July 2. Salmonella can cause diarrhea, fever and stomach cramps within eight to 72 hours after exposure, according to the Mayo Clinic, which said most healthy people recover within days to a week without treatment. Edited by Faris Tanyos Aki Nace and Aimee Picchi contributed to this report. More from CBS News Cyclospora outbreak tied to lettuce now linked to 15 states, CDC says Senate confirms Dr. Erica Schwartz as CDC director FDA approves Moderna's mRNA flu vaccine after initial pushback Behind closed doors, Trump, White House aides hope Rep. Max Miller exits race Go deeper with The Free Press Is MAHA Fixing What’s Broken? Or Making Things Even Worse? Matt Mahan Is a Normie Democrat. Could He Be California’s Next Governor? In: Health Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Salmonella Qdoba © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Chipotle suspected in salmonella outbreak Salmonella outbreak possibly linked to Chipotle jalapeños under investigation in Minnesota 01:48 Salmonella outbreak possibly linked to Chipotle jalapeños under investigation in Minnesota (01:48) Cyclospora outbreak tied to lettuce now linked to 15 states, CDC says Senate confirms Dr. Erica Schwartz as CDC director FDA approves Moderna's mRNA flu vaccine after initial pushback Is MAHA Fixing What’s Broken? Or Making Things Even Worse? Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue