Women's Super League: Mariona Caldentey says 2026-27 is Arsenal's time - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Women's Football Scores & Fixtures Table Top Scorers Women's Super League Caldentey embraces 'cool' pressure as Arsenal target Treble Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Since signing in summer 2024, Mariona Caldentey has played the joint-most Women's Super League and Champions League games for Arsenal alongside Alessia Russo with 43 By Joe Bradshaw BBC Sport senior journalist Published 3 hours ago Mariona Caldentey has won four Champions Leagues, six Spanish titles, six Spanish Cups, a European Championship and a World Cup - but her eyes light up when discussing Arsenal's hopes of silverware in the upcoming 2026-27 season. With the Gunners chasing a first Women's Super League title since 2019, along with two domestic cups and another Champions League, she is explicit about what she expects. "We have to do it - now it has to be our time." The last time Caldentey, 30, was spotted in an Arsenal shirt was in May, standing on an open-top bus as part of the men's and women's victory parade around north London. Hundreds of thousands of supporters lined the streets to celebrate a first Premier League title in 22 years for the men, with Caldentey and her team-mates also showing off the inaugural Women's Champions Cup they won against Brazilian side Corinthians in February. It was a prize to cherish last season but, having finished second in the WSL and had their Champions League defence ended by an 87th-minute Lyon winner in their semi-final second leg, the Spain midfielder wants to put things right this season. "We need to take the next step and are ready for it," she said. "We need to be ambitious, have no fear and believe in ourselves. "That does not mean we are going to win it - there are other things that we cannot control, but that's the message. "We are professional athletes at a big club and we have to deal with pressure. We accept it and I think it's a cool part of the job." Why fast start crucial to Arsenal's title chances Boss Renee Slegers is equally bullish about Arsenal's targets for this season and is expecting her players to deliver. "We are in a really good place," she told the Women's Football Weekly podcast. "We need to be bold and explicit - we want to win the Women's Super League, and, of course, the Treble." Last season, Arsenal won only four of their first nine games. By contrast, eventual champions Manchester City recovered from losing their opening match at Chelsea to rattle off 13 straight wins and seize control of the title race. Replicating such a start will leave Arsenal's dreams of a first WSL title in eight seasons in tatters - and it could not be much tougher, with early trips to Stamford Bridge and Etihad Stadium. They also travel to Brighton who they lost against in the FA Cup quarter-finals in April and who, a month later, held them 1-1 to guarantee City the title. However, after the novelty of a full pre-season, Slegers is confident of a faster start this time. "Some players haven't had that since 2017, 2018, and you can see that," she said. "They come back with so much energy, so much excitement. "I think honestly they've been decompressing, recharging. Sometimes you understand what you're missing when it's not there. I think that's what the players have gone through so you can really feel the excitement to do something." Why Arsenal feel they are 'ready' Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Caldentey played against Georgia Stanway in the World Cup final in 2023, the European Championship final in 2025 and in World Cup qualifiers in 2026 This summer, Slegers has strengthened her hand with seven new players, including full-back Ona Batlle, Caldentey's compatriot, and England dynamo Georgia Stanway to stiffen midfield. Caldentey says Arsenal came up short last season through inconsistency and hopes the signings will help overcome that hurdle. "We have shown amazing moments and amazing games and others where we haven't been good enough," she said. "That happened too many times last year. It was painful. "We have added a lot of quality and that will help us." With players such as two-time Ballon d'Or winner and fellow Spaniard Alexia Putellas arriving in the WSL, down the road at London City Lionesses, Caldentey accepts the league is getting tougher. "It is a really attractive league," she said. "What you see and experience here, you don't get in other places. There are never any easy games. "You want to play against the best - that's the challenge as a player and the quality here is really high." And any observer would count Caldentey as among the very best. In two seasons at Emirates Stadium, she has won WSL Player of the Season, come second in the 2024-25 Ballon d'Or and made the WSL Team of the Year both times. During that period, her role has evolved from forward to midfielder and yet, despite that, only Alessia Russo has scored and assisted more for Arsenal. "You have to adapt to what the team needs," she said. "Last year, I played a different role, closer to our defensive line. I was not used to it but these things make you grow. "I do things better now than a year ago. Of course I enjoy playing higher up where you can be more creative and more risky but whatever my coach or team needs, I'll do it." Her manager has stated clearly her team needs trophies. Caldentey is steeling herself to deliver. The making of Spain and Arsenal's humble magician Published 24 August 2025 'Not often you can write Arsenal history' - Gunners win Champions Cup Published 1 February From Monday, 10 August, listen to an Arsenal special on the Women's Football Weekly podcast. Find interviews with Georgia Stanway, Renee Slegers, Lotte Wubben-Moy and more on the Women's Football Weekly feed . Related topics Women's Football Football Women's Super League Shorts Previous Next 0:44 Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup. 00:00:44, play video Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup 0:44 Why have Real Madrid signed Diomande? 00:00:44, play video Why have Real Madrid signed Diomande? 1:06 Athletes should speak up if they're struggling - Muirhead. 00:01:06, play video Athletes should speak up if they're struggling - Muirhead 1:25 Rangers guilty of beating ourselves - McInnes. 00:01:25, play video Rangers guilty of beating ourselves - McInnes 1:26 Poor first-half 'killed' Hearts - Vrancken. 00:01:26, play video Poor first-half 'killed' Hearts - Vrancken 1:11 The incredible story of Yan Diomande. 00:01:11, play video The incredible story of Yan Diomande 0:57 Curran and Ahmed still in England Test plans - North. 00:00:57, play video Curran and Ahmed still in England Test plans - North 0:32 Thousands welcome World Cup hero Vozinha in Chile. 00:00:32, play video Thousands welcome World Cup hero Vozinha in Chile 1:19 Afghan women's team can play again after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team can play again after ban 0:41 Rush emotional at exhibition honouring career. 00:00:41, play video Rush emotional at exhibition honouring career 1:20 Memes, burgers and Danny Dyer - British runners come clean. 00:01:20, play video Memes, burgers and Danny Dyer - British runners come clean 0:39 How Smalling went from A-levels to Premier League. 00:00:39, play video How Smalling went from A-levels to Premier League 1:22 Be your 'biggest cheerleader' - positive advice from Amy Hunt. 00:01:22, play video Be your 'biggest cheerleader' - positive advice from Amy Hunt 0:25 'I've been really impressed with him' - Arteta on O'Neill. 00:00:25, play video 'I've been really impressed with him' - Arteta on O'Neill 0:46 Chelsea's 16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli. 00:00:46, play video Chelsea's 16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli Top stories Mexico break ranks to join Argentina in backing Infantino Published 1 hour ago England footballer Toney charged with assault in Soho Published 35 minutes ago Live . Transfer latest: Barcelona move ahead of Real in race for Rodri 3719 viewing 3.7k viewing Elsewhere on the BBC 'I said maybeeee...' Aviation is being reimagined for the changing planet A new high-stakes thriller crackling with danger Did Fenners score the first ever goal at the new Wembley Stadium? Elsewhere in Sport Who will leave Chelsea? How Blues could cut 41-man squad Doku's new deal, Gonzalez to stay - what's latest on Man City transfers? Spirit eliminated after losing fiery match against MI London. Video Spirit eliminated after losing fiery match against MI London Why Real are happy to pay £120m for raw genius of Diomande Weekly sports quiz: Beckham at the Commonwealth Games? Newcastle appoint Jaissle - what should fans expect? Lines to be first British woman in America's Cup team for 90 years How Buttler became T20 cricket's run-scoring GOAT Why Liverpool are ready to make Barcola third £100m signing No WSL experience but who is new Man Utd boss Olid? Why £1m-a-season deal will be hard for Pollock and Hearn to find A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season Why we are still waiting for the 'Newey effect' - F1 Q&A The ex-sandwich maker who cycles to Champions League games Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.