Fire Point: The drone maker powering Ukraine's deep-strike campaign Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Politics & Policy Inside the startup drone maker powering Ukraine's deep-strike campaign Published Sat, Aug 8 2026 1:00 AM EDT Updated Sat, Aug 8 2026 11:29 AM EDT Sam Meredith @in/samuelmeredith @smeredith19 WATCH LIVE Key Points Fire Point CEO Iryna Terekh says Ukraine has "learned the hard way" that military leverage is integral to bringing diplomacy within reach. Her comments come as Kyiv's escalating drone campaign against Russia appears to have revived hopes that the war could be shifting in Ukraine's favor. "With the Russians you can fight with drones and missiles but how do you fight with bureaucracy when you cannot receive a paper that you need very much to do some job?" Terekh said. watch now VIDEO 1:20 01:20 Fire Point provides capabilities for 60% of Ukraine’s deep strikes, CEO says Squawk Box Europe The chief executive of Ukraine's leading arms company says Kyiv has "learned the hard way" that military strength is an essential precursor to diplomacy, describing deep strikes into Russian territory as a core tenet of the country's pressure campaign. Missile and drone maker Fire Point , which says it currently facilitates more than 60% of Ukraine's so-called "long-range sanctions," has scaled exponentially since being founded in response to Russia's full-scale invasion in 2022. The defense-tech startup produced around 200 drones that year, a feat CEO Iryna Terekh described as a "huge achievement." Since then, the Kyiv-headquartered startup has swelled from three founding members to more than 7,000 employees and Terekh says it "looks realistic" to expect the team to produce more than 100,000 drones by year-end. "We have to understand that we live, unfortunately, in the same timeline with a completely barbarous, imperialistic neighbor and we can expect whatever," Fire Point CEO Iryna Terekh told CNBC by video call. "Unfortunately, I was in that naïve state of mind before the full-scale invasion that we will find a way to de-escalate the situation and find a diplomatic way to deal with this, but from what we can observe, this is not something that is possible." Russia's Foreign Ministry did not respond to CNBC's request for comment. Russian President Vladimir Putin has previously framed the conflict as a pursuit to reverse Russia's post-Soviet retreat and revive Moscow's superpower status. Ukrainian workers use 3D printing and carbon fiber at a secret factory to build and fit wings, components, and fuselages of FP-2 drones, made by the Fire Point defense company, for deep-strike attacks inside Russia that have targeted Russia's energy infrastructure and military logistics hubs, on July 17, 2026 at an undisclosed location in Ukraine. Scott Peterson | Getty Images News | Getty Images From Siberia to occupied Crimea , Ukraine's drone campaign appears to have revived hopes that the war could be shifting in Kyiv's favor, although commentators have warned that efforts to raise the cost of the conflict for Russia risk further escalation. Some analysts have also questioned whether Ukrainian drones alone can force Putin to the negotiating table, with the Atlantic Council's Christopher Isajiw suggesting that progress toward peace may only become possible when continuing the war becomes more costly for the Russian president than ending it. Ukraine calls for ballistic missile interceptors Ukraine has stepped up attacks on Russia's Amazon-style retail giant Wildberries in recent weeks, seeking to squeeze a critical piece of Russia's consumer economy and create a new pressure point for Putin. Russian forces, meanwhile, have increased the number of missile strikes on Ukrainian cities, likely seeking to exploit Kyiv's shortage of ballistic missile interceptors. Known for flagship products such as the FP-1 series of deep-strike drones and the FP-5 Flamingo cruise missile, Fire Point's CEO said the company is doing whatever it can to support Ukraine's deep-strike ambitions. "I'm very proud and I feel a huge responsibility to be a big part of this. We have to understand that the whole war doctrines are changing live in the moment," Terekh said. This photograph shows an FP-5 Flamingo cruise missile and a drone FP-1 from Ukrainian defence technology company Fire Point on display at Eurosatory, a land and airland defence and security trade fair, in Villepinte on the outskirts of Paris, on June 16, 2026. Julien De Rosa | Afp | Getty Images President Volodymyr Zelenskyy singled out Fire Point as putting Siberia "within reach of Ukrainian precision" following an attack on a major oil refinery in the Russian city of Omsk last month. The attack was seen as further evidence of Kyiv's long-range drone capabilities in the run-up to a crunch NATO summit in Turkey, where U.S. President Donald Trump told Zelenskyy that the U.S. would allow Ukraine to produce ballistic missile interceptors. The U.S. president has since cast doubt on plans to allow Kyiv to manufacture Patriots domestically and in Europe, however, raising alarm among Ukrainian officials who fear a winter assault could pose the country's toughest challenge of the war yet. Zelenskyy has repeatedly called on international partners to expedite the supply of ballistic missile interceptors to Ukraine, saying that the technology could have saved the lives of those killed in Kyiv on Aug. 5. Fire Point aims to produce a ballistic missile interceptor for a fraction of the cost of a U.S.-made Patriot. However, Terekh said these efforts require the company to achieve in a few years a program that usually takes two to three decades. Read more Russian attack kills at least 17 in Kyiv as Ukraine hammers more Wildberries warehouses 'Winter is coming': Ukraine fears its toughest test since Russia's full-scale invasion Ukraine is raising the cost of war for Russia — and testing Putin's resolve A hold-up in European funding has also prevented the company from maximizing production of its Flamingo cruise missile, Terekh said. "The production of Flamingo is not running at full power [at] the moment because we were waiting for the funds for a European loan to come in but we expect to ramp it up to expected maximum capabilities that we named when we started the Flamingo production." Fire Point: Europe's red tape is a strategic threat Terekh has previously compared European bureaucracy to the security threat posed by Russian forces. "Probably I put a little bit too much drama in this phrase, but I really wanted it to be heard because we need to understand that whatever Fire Point achieved, and as well as other Ukrainian manufacturers, would be never possible in any [other] European country, simply because of bureaucracy," Terekh said. "You take the same people, the same money, the same factories, they would simply not be working in Europe for one simple reason, because of the hold of regulations and I would love to inspire European politicians to review how the bureaucracy should work under such a huge threat that we are all facing now," she continued. "When we compare these two threats, so the Russians and the bureaucracy, with the Russians you can fight with drones and missiles but how do you fight with bureaucracy when you cannot receive a paper that you need very much to do some job?" Co-owner of the drone manufacturer Fire Point Denys Shtilerman, Chief Technology Officer of Fire Point Iryna Terekh, and co-owner of the drone manufacturer Fire Point Yehor Skalyha are present at the press conference of the company Fire Point on November 21, 2025 in Kyiv, Ukraine. Global Images Ukraine | Global Images Ukraine | Getty Images A spokesperson for the European Commission, the EU's executive arm, declined to comment. Alongside diplomatic, financial, military and humanitarian support for Ukraine, the EU recently introduced its largest sanctions package against Russia in four years, targeting almost 220 individuals and entities as it seeks to squeeze the country's economy and its capacity to prolong its full-scale invasion. "Ukrainians were pretty imaginative in trying an alternative strategy," Alex Kolyandr, director for Europe at the Eurasia Group, a consulting firm, told CNBC. "I'm not entirely sure it was the right decision to strike Russian oil facilities in March and April … but then I think it was extremely smart to target refining facilities and the main retail company," Kolyandr said, referring to Kyiv's attacks on Wildberries warehouses. "I understand there was a twofold aim in all that. First of all, to force some economic damage and then to broadcast the message that this is not some kind of faraway colonial war, but it is something much closer to home. And honestly, they are quite successful in that," he added. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by