Owasso Police release timeline linking federal child sex crime case and murder-suicide - NewsOn6.com Search Query Submit Search Hide Search Show Search News Business Education Crime Politics Oklahoma June Primary Oklahoma Elections Health Weather Forecasts Daily Hourly 7-Day Radars & Maps WARN Radar National Radar Watches & Warnings Traffic SKYCAM Network Full Skycam Network Bartlesville Tulsa Airport Downtown I-75/I-44 HWY 169/BA Gathering Place First Bank of Owasso HWY 169/71st Jenks First Oklahoma Bank MORE FROM OUR METEOROLOGISTS Weather Blogs This Week In Weather Ahead of the Storm Oklahoma Weather Safety Sports Thunder Watch FC Tulsa Games OU OSU TU ORU Tulsa Drillers Tulsa Oilers High School Football HS Scores & Schedule Oklahoma Ford Sports Blitz Oklahoma State: Remember the 10 Things to Do Route 66 Capital Car Cruise Food Entertainment Route 66 Road Trip Discover The Fullbright Files Your Money Matters Data Centers in Oklahoma The View From Up Here Flavor of Oklahoma Oklahoma Lake Levels Community Spotlight Recipes Something Good Health Matters Educate Oklahoma The Roadside Memorials Project Videos About Us About News On 6 Meet the News Team Advertise with Us Meet the Sales Team Osage SkyNews 6 Contests Text & Win News Video Request TV Schedule Tulsa CW News On 6 Now Stream News On 6 News On 6 DMA Map twitter instagram facebook youtube Keep up-to-date with everything that happens in your world. We promise to never spam you. You can opt-out at any time. Please refer to our Privacy Policy for additional information. © 2026 Griffin Media. Privacy Policy , Terms of Service , Editorial Ethics Policy , Legal Notices , EEO Report , Ad Choices , Public Inspection File Contact, KOTV Public Inspection File , KQCW Public Inspection File , KOTV-AM Public Inspection File , Closed Captioning Assistance , FCC Applications , VPAT (Voluntary Product Accessibility Template) NewsOn6.com is proud to provide Oklahomans with timely and relevant news and information, sharing the stories, pictures and loves of Oklahomans across our great state. Menu News Business Education Crime Politics Oklahoma June Primary Oklahoma Elections Health Weather Forecasts Daily Hourly 7-Day Radars & Maps WARN Radar National Radar Watches & Warnings Traffic SKYCAM Network Full Skycam Network Bartlesville Tulsa Airport Downtown I-75/I-44 HWY 169/BA Gathering Place First Bank of Owasso HWY 169/71st Jenks First Oklahoma Bank MORE FROM OUR METEOROLOGISTS Weather Blogs This Week In Weather Ahead of the Storm Oklahoma Weather Safety Sports Thunder Watch FC Tulsa Games OU OSU TU ORU Tulsa Drillers Tulsa Oilers High School Football HS Scores & Schedule Oklahoma Ford Sports Blitz Oklahoma State: Remember the 10 Things to Do Route 66 Capital Car Cruise Food Entertainment Route 66 Road Trip Discover The Fullbright Files Your Money Matters Data Centers in Oklahoma The View From Up Here Flavor of Oklahoma Oklahoma Lake Levels Community Spotlight Recipes Something Good Health Matters Educate Oklahoma The Roadside Memorials Project Videos About Us About News On 6 Meet the News Team Advertise with Us Meet the Sales Team Osage SkyNews 6 Contests Text & Win News Video Request TV Schedule Tulsa CW News On 6 Now Stream News On 6 News On 6 DMA Map 4:30A Search Query Submit Search Hide Search Show Search TODAY Heat Safety Tips Thunder On Griffin News Crime Owasso Police release timeline linking federal child sex crime case and murder-suicide Police say a protective order was issued after a June child molestation investigation that was later referred to federal authorities before a deadly domestic violence incident in Owasso this week. Brian Smallwood July 25, 2026 07:21 PM 2 min read Copy Link copied Email Print Owasso Police release timeline linking federal child sex crime case and murder-suicide OWASSO, Okla. - Owasso Police have released new information connecting a June child molestation investigation involving a traveling youth basketball coach with an apparent murder-suicide that happened July 23. Investigators say the suspect in both cases, 48-year-old Jeremiah Shawn Duffey, was under a protective order filed by his estranged wife when officers responded to the deadly domestic violence call. June investigation referred to federal authorities According to police, officers took a report June 9 after a juvenile and a parent came to police headquarters alleging inappropriate sexual contact during a basketball event at an elementary school. Investigators said Duffey, who coached a traveling competitive basketball team, allegedly inappropriately touched a juvenile player. Police said similar conduct involving the same victim was reported to have occurred over an extended period in multiple jurisdictions and states. Officials emphasized the team was not affiliated with Owasso Public Schools, and Duffey had no connection to the district. The team was renting the school’s gym while classes were not in session. Because police determined the alleged offense occurred in Indian Country and Duffey was a member of the Osage Nation, the investigation was referred to the U.S. Attorney’s Office under the Federal Major Crimes Act, ending Owasso Police’s jurisdiction over the reported molestation case. Who Sara Duffey was Sara Duffey, who went by Sara Gilson, worked as a hairstylist and had built a following as a TikTok influencer, where she sold clothes and jewelry. Sara Duffey posted a video on TikTok on June 11 calling her estranged husband a “pedophile”. Domestic violence call ended in two deaths Police said officers responded shortly after 11:15 p.m. July 23 to a home near 12318 N. 130th E. Ave. after a 911 caller could be heard screaming before what dispatchers believed was a gunshot. A second 911 call from a juvenile reported his stepfather had shot his mother. Officers found two people dead from apparent gunshot wounds to the head. Investigators believe the case appears to be a murder-suicide. Police identified the woman as 43-year-old Sara Jane Duffey and said she had obtained a protective order against Jeremiah Shawn Duffey following the June investigation. Investigators said Owasso Police had received no reports alleging violations of that protective order before the July 23 incident. Previous Reporting Owasso woman killed in murder-suicide remembered as devoted mother, great friend Owasso Police investigate apparent murder-suicide after 2 found dead Copy Link copied Email Print Brian Smallwood Brian Smallwood is an award-winning journalist and Executive Producer of Digital Content for Griffin Media. Brian joined the company in 2017 and has nearly 20 years of experience in television news and digital media. More Like This Crime Coweta police review use of force after 69-year-old injured following traffic stop Ethan Wright 7 hours ago 2 min read Crime Tulsa Co DA pushes for tougher oversight on medical marijuana industry following deadly explosion Samantha Rupe 8 hours ago 5 min read Crime Man charged after deadly Sapulpa crash Samantha Rupe 12 hours ago 1 min read Crime Charges refiled for man in 2008 Tulsa murder Samantha Rupe 13 hours ago 1 min read Crime Tulsa police arrest man accused of breaking into neighbor’s apartment Samantha Rupe 14 hours ago 1 min read Related stories × NewsOn6.com is proud to provide Oklahomans with timely and relevant news and information, sharing the stories, pictures and loves of Oklahomans across our great state. twitter instagram facebook youtube Our Products Contact Us Careers Historical Video Request Keep up-to-date with everything that happens in your world. We promise to never spam you. You can opt-out at any time. Please refer to our Privacy Policy for additional information. © 2026 Griffin Media. Privacy Policy , Terms of Service , Editorial Ethics Policy , Legal Notices , EEO Report , Ad Choices , Public Inspection File Contact, KOTV Public Inspection File , KQCW Public Inspection File , KOTV-AM Public Inspection File , Closed Captioning Assistance , FCC Applications , VPAT (Voluntary Product Accessibility Template)