Amazon’s Stackable Storage Bins Are 40% Off | NBC Selected IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Top stories Owala’s back-to-school sale is here The best keratosis pilaris treatments for smoother skin Packing your skin care and makeup is so much easier with this toiletry bag How often should you change and wash your towels REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gearpost, REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gear Walmart has up to 65% off back-to-school must-haves 35+ college-exclusive back-to-school deals Skip to Content About Us Wellness All Wellness Skin Care Hair Care Oral Care Health Fitness Sleep Home All Home Small appliances Bedding & bath Cleaning Vacuums Office Gardening Kitchen All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech All Tech Electronics Personal Tech TVs Audio Computers Cameras Pets All Pets Dogs Cats Pet Care Lifestyle All Lifestyle Sports Travel Parenting Apparel Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping Subscribe Share About Us Wellness Main Menu All Wellness Skin Care Wellness All Skin Care Hair Care Wellness All Hair Care Oral Care Wellness All Oral Care Health Wellness All Health Fitness Wellness All Fitness Sleep Wellness All Sleep Home Main Menu All Home Small appliances Home All Small appliances Bedding & bath Home All Bedding & bath Cleaning Home All Cleaning Vacuums Home All Vacuums Office Home All Office Gardening Kitchen Main Menu All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech Main Menu All Tech Electronics Tech All Electronics Personal Tech Tech All Personal Tech TVs Tech All TVs Audio Tech All Audio Computers Cameras Pets Main Menu All Pets Dogs Pets All Dogs Cats Pets All Cats Pet Care Pets All Pet Care Lifestyle Main Menu All Lifestyle Sports Travel Lifestyle All Travel Parenting Apparel Lifestyle All Apparel Footwear Lifestyle All Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales Main Menu All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories Main Menu All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides Main Menu All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping More from NBC Sign up for the Selected Newsletter Check out Shop TODAY NBC News TODAY About Help Careers Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information CA Notice Terms Of Service NBC News Sitemap Advertise Ad Choices Follow Selected © 2026 NBCNEWS.COM NBC Selected independently determines what we cover and recommend. When you click on or buy through our links, we earn a commission. Learn more . Deals and Sales These viral organizing bins maximize closet and dorm space, and they’re 40% off This lightning deal ends in less than 12 hours, so be sure to add to your cart before they’re gone. Aug. 4, 2026, 11:40 AM EDT Jem Alabi Editorial Operations Associate Skip to table of contents These easy-to-assemble storage bins help you make the most of your closet space and right now the five-pack is down to just under $36. Amazon As back-to-school season approaches, it’s the perfect time to get your space organized — whether you’re moving into a dorm , refreshing your apartment or finally tackling an overflowing closet . Right now, Amazon has a popular five-pack of stackable storage bins for 40% off, dropping the price to just under $36. Reviewers praise the bins for being sturdy, easy to assemble and versatile enough for everything from clothes and school supplies to toys and office essentials. You don’t want to save all your shopping for the last minute, and for the next several weeks, we will be frequently publishing back-to-school sales so be sure to check back in our deals hub for the best products on sale. And keep reading to learn more about these organizing helpers and why you should get them before the deal ends. Deal of the day SNSLXH Stackable Closet Organizer Baskets (Set of 5) 4,807 Amazon Reviews $ 35.95 $ 59.99 Amazon Now 40% off These stackable storage bins are an easy way to create extra storage in closets, kitchen pantries, dorm rooms or small apartments. Each bin functions like a pull-out drawer, making it simple to grab clothes, snacks, school supplies or accessories, and when you don’t need them, they fold flat for compact storage. If you’re planning to buy multiples, you’re actually better off buying two five-packs. At less than $36 each, you’ll get 10 bins for just under $72 — nearly $18 less than the $89.99 eight-pack . The bins also come in pink , yellow and green if you’re looking to add a pop of color to your space. Why this deal is worth it $35.95 vs. $59.99 Less than 12 hours left to claim this lightning deal Ideal for dorm rooms, closets, apartments, playrooms and home offices Stackable, foldable design that’s easy to assemble and comes in multiple colors Smart shopping tip: The five-pack works out to about $7.19 per bin, while the eight-pack is $89.99 (about $11.25 per bin) — so if you buy two sets of five, it will actually be cheaper than buying one set of eight. Related selected selected Walmart has up to 65% off back-to-school must-haves — shop now before the rush Want more from NBC Selected? Sign up for our newsletter, The Selection, and shop smarter. Why trust NBC Selected? I am an editorial operations associate and contributing writer for NBC Selected, where I regularly cover major shopping events and spend my days tracking prices, comparing retailers and identifying worthwhile deals for readers. I’ve led the charge on back-to-school shopping in my family for almost 20 years and am committed to finding you the best deals and discounts on supplies that will last for years. Catch up on NBC Selected’s in-depth coverage of tech and tools , wellness and more, and follow us on Facebook , Instagram , Twitter and TikTok to stay up to date. Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off Jem Alabi Jem is the editorial operations associate for NBC Selected. These viral organizing bins maximize closet and dorm space, and they’re 40% off Owala’s back-to-school sale is here, with bestselling water bottles 20% off Nike, Coach, The North Face and other popular brands have travel backpacks and bookbags up to 71% off Latest articles Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off ABOUT CONTACT HELP CAREERS PRIVACY POLICY DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION CA NOTICE TERMS OF SERVICE NBC NEWS SITEMAP AD CHOICES ADVERTISE DEALS & SALES SKIN CARE HEALTH TECH NBCNews.com © 2026 SELECTED | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.