US Senate committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt over Covid hearing - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat US & Canada US Senate committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt over Covid hearing Image source, Bloomberg via Getty Images By Bernd Debusmann Jr White House reporter Published 6 August 2026, 14:36 BST Updated 1 hour ago A US Senate committee has voted to hold former top health official Anthony Fauci in contempt of Congress after he refused to answer questions during a hearing examining his handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. The vote - which fell along party lines - clears the way for the committee to refer the case to the justice department for potential prosecution for failing to comply with a congressional subpoena. It remains unclear whether the department will pursue the case. During his testimony last week, Fauci invoked his constitutional right against self-incrimination more than 100 times, arguing that Kentucky Senator Rand Paul was trying to put him "behind bars". In a statement following the vote, Fauci's lawyer called it a "crude political stunt" being conducted to "punish Dr Fauci for exercising his constitutional right". The origins of the pandemic have been a matter of strong debate in the US, including between President Donald Trump, who was in office when it began in 2020, and public health officials, including Fauci. Senator Rand Paul has for years accused Fauci of attempting to hide its origins and of funding a research lab in the Chinese city of Wuhan, where some believe the pandemic began with a lab-leak. Most scientists believe that exposure to an infected animal is a more likely origin for the pandemic. Former President Joe Biden gave Fauci a pre-emptive pardon on his last day in office in 2025, protecting him from federal prosecution for his actions between 2014 and 2025. But Fauci could still face charges for anything after that date, including contempt of Congress. He could also face state or local charges that are not covered by the pardon. "The chair directed Anthony Fauci to answer. He refused," Kentucky Republican Rand Paul said ahead of the vote. "That is what we are voting on today — not his opinions, not his policies, not anything he said from the podium six years ago. " "We are voting on whether a witness who has received the benefit of a federal pardon can be ordered by this committee to answer questions and then defy that order without consequence," he added. The Top Democrat on the committee, Michigan Senator Gary Peters, defended Fauci, accusing Paul of a "rushed investigation" and a "yearslong campaign" to prosecute Fauci. Fauci has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing, and last week accused Paul of having an "obvious obsession" with prosecuting him. "The only conclusion I can reach is that the sole reason he is calling me before this committee is to get me to say something - anything - that could vindicate his repeated public pledges that I end up, in his words, 'behind bars'," Fauci said. Paul, the committee's Republican chairman, bypassed a full senate vote on the contempt resolution saying he did not "want to waste time" going through the procedure. Normally, contempt resolutions passed by the committee go to the full Senate, where they require a 60-vote majority. Republicans currently hold 53 seats in the 100-member Senate. In a statement quoted by US news outlets, Dr Fauci's lawyer, David Schertler, called on the Senate to "reject Senator Paul's meritless and politically-motivated contempt resolution". "For years, Senator Paul has proclaimed to anyone who would listen that Dr Fauci should be prosecuted and put in prison," Schertler added. "Dr Fauci has committed no crime — and Senator Paul knows it." Schertler had previously argued that he believes that the former top health official is on "solid legal ground" going forward, adding that Paul "may be a doctor, but he is not a lawyer". Paul worked as an eye surgeon until he got elected to the US Senate in 2010. "We are completely confident that Dr Fauci has a valid Fifth Amendment privilege here and is on solid legal ground in asserting it," attorney David Schertler said in an e-mail to CBS, the BBC's US partner, last week. Taking the Fifth is not an admission of guilt - it is designed to protect individuals against coercion, mistakes, and unfair shifting of the burden to provide proof of wrongdoing. Contempt prosecutions - and convictions - are rare. In 2024, former Trump allies Steve Bannon and Peter Navarro were both convicted of contempt and sentenced to jail sentences, marking the first convictions since the 1980s. Related topics United States Coronavirus lockdown measures Anthony Fauci United States Senate The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:58 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns. 00:00:58, play video Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 1:19 England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations. 00:01:19, play video England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia Top stories Live . Major disruption on railways in northern England after Manchester power failure 12501 viewing 13k viewing Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases Published 1 hour ago Live . FA withdraw support for Infantino as Uefa say World Cup boycott may still go ahead 13894 viewing 14k viewing More to explore The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Rihanna is 'in the studio', says partner A$AP Rocky Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives Why aren't more women getting into padel? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order 2 Mark Hughes' son died of sudden adult death syndrome 3 Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' 4 Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases 5 Nadia Sawalha threatens ITV with legal action over Loose Women removal 6 Ukraine hits two oil refineries deep in Russian territory 7 Meredith Kercher's sister criticises Amanda Knox comedy show 8 All of England's rivers and lakes polluted with chemicals, officials say 9 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 10 All schools in England to get pupil attendance targets, government says BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.