More than 50 decomposing bodies found at Far South Side funeral home - CBS Chicago Latest U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds Chicago | News Weather Sports Video Local News Indiana News Wisconsin News Investigators Politics Consumer HealthWatch Entertainment Business All Weather Chicago School Closings Flight Delays O'Hare Flight Delays Midway All Sports CBS Sports HQ Bears Bulls Blackhawks Cubs White Sox Fire Red Stars Sky Odds Station Info Meet Our Team Send a news tip Advertise Jobs & Internships Contests & Promotions Download App Memorials Watch CBS News Local News More than 50 decomposing bodies found at Far South Side funeral home By Todd Feurer , Todd Feurer Web Producer, CBS Chicago Todd Feurer is a web producer for CBS Chicago. He has previously written for WBBM Newsradio, WUIS-FM and the New City News Service. Read Full Bio Todd Feurer , Victor Jacobo Victor Jacobo Reporter Victor Jacobo is a reporter for CBS News Chicago who joined the team in August 2025. Read Full Bio Victor Jacobo Updated on: August 6, 2026 / 10:12 PM CDT / CBS Chicago Add CBS News on Google An investigation was underway at a Far South Side funeral home after more than 50 decomposing bodies were found in the facility. Its funeral director's license was suspended when state regulators found decomposing bodies were being kept in "deplorable conditions" that included rodent and maggot infestations. Chicago police were seen going in and out of South Chicago Chapel, at the corner of 95th Street and Exchange Avenue, on Thursday evening. A Chicago Police Department spokesperson referred questions to the Cook County Medical Examiner's Office, which confirmed it was notified by city and state officials about bodies improperly stored at the funeral home. Investigators and forensic pathologists who went to the facility "found more than 50 decedents in various states of decomposition at this time." The medical examiner's office said investigators were still assessing the conditions of the bodies and searching for documents to identify them, including death certificates, a process that could take several days. According to the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation records, the state suspended the license of funeral director Johanna Morgan due to a finding that the facility's "continued practice is a danger to the public safety, interest and welfare." Records show Morgan had been "allowing multiple decedents to be kept in an unrefrigerated area with deplorable conditions including rodent infestation, causing decomposition and maggot infestation of the bodies." Morgan was funeral director at South Chicago Chapel as late as May of 2025 but it was unclear from current records if she was still funeral director there as of Thursday. One neighbor, who wanted to be identified only as "V," said she's lived directly behind South Chicago Chapel for about a year and has constantly experienced what she describes as a disturbing smell. "It just, like, stinks all the time. Like, it's so bad," she said. "I don't know, like a dead mouse. Like, it stinks." On Thursday evening, staff from Emmanuel Funeral Home & Cremation Services arrived at South Chicago Chapel to retrieve a body, unaware of the investigation. The staff said they had spoken with South Chicago Chapel earlier but had not heard from them since. "We stopped by to get someone. We don't know what's going on at the moment," Pastor Christopher Jennings said. "We talked to them the first time, they picked up, they talked to us, they said they'd give us a call back. After that, there was no call. We kept calling, so we decided to do a wellness check to see what was going on and this is what we come to." According to the Illinois Secretary of State's website, the active business license of South Chicago Chapel lists Johanna Morgan's husband, Clark Morgan, as president. The funeral home's owners did not respond to messages left by CBS News Chicago. Clark Morgan previously owned and operated Heights Crematory in Chicago Heights, which was shut down last year, accused of mishandling the bodies of people who had recently died. The crematory agreed to shut down its operations amid a probe by the Illinois State Comptroller's office, which regulates the cremation industry. CBS News Chicago obtained photos from inside a trailer at the crematory where bodies were being stored. The trailer is located on the property belonging to Heights, and the photos show deceased people partially wrapped in sheets or clear plastic bags, with their faces and body parts sticking out. CBS News Chicago also found bodies in bags moved from another trailer on the site, and there are questions about storage areas without proper refrigeration at the business. More from CBS News Audit raises questions over who is accessing Elk Grove license plate camera data 1 dead after South Los Angeles shooting "Exorcist" star Linda Blair's animal rescue cited for overcrowding, violating license at Los Angeles-area facility Wildfire conditions starting to ease in northern Minnesota, Walz says Child driving car hits, critically injures woman walking dog in Oakland © 2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. Featured Local Savings More than 50 decomposing bodies found at South Chicago Chapel funeral home More than 50 decomposing bodies found at South Chicago Chapel funeral home 02:58 More than 50 decomposing bodies found at South Chicago Chapel funeral home (02:58) Audit raises questions over who is accessing Elk Grove license plate camera data 1 dead after South Los Angeles shooting "Exorcist" star Linda Blair's animal rescue cited for overcrowding, violating license at Los Angeles-area facility Wildfire conditions starting to ease in northern Minnesota, Walz says Child driving car hits, critically injures woman walking dog in Oakland Judge weighs key privacy question in lawsuit over San Jose's license plate reader cameras Driver arrested after crashing during Northridge street takeover, injuring 2 bystanders Cyberattacks on water systems in 12 states prompt precautions in Chicago area Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram TikTok X CBS News Chicago Meet the Team Program Guide Contact Us Advertise With Us Terms & Conditions Sitemap Regulation Public File for WBBM-TV Public Inspection File Help FCC Applications EEO Report Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman ©2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue