Athletes go 'missing' after Commonwealth Games - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Scotland Scotland Politics Scotland Business Edinburgh, Fife & East Glasgow & West Highlands & Islands NE, Orkney & Shetland South Tayside & Central Athletes go 'missing' after Commonwealth Games ends Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Nuhu Batte is one of several athletes alleged to have disappeared after the Commonwealth Games ended By Jonathan Geddes Glasgow and west reporter Published 5 hours ago Several athletes have disappeared after competing in the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow, failing to return home with the rest of their teams. Police Scotland said it had received reports of various athletes "unaccounted for" in the aftermath of the Games, which concluded on Sunday. The sports website NBS Sport , external said four members of the Ugandan boxing squad had not turned up to fly home, adding that one member of the team had told the website the athletes intended to seek asylum in Scotland. Pakistan Today also reported , external that the boxer Qudratullah had not joined the rest of his team mates in flying home to Pakistan, and that he was not found in his room when officials went to search for him. More stories from Glasgow & West Scotland More stories from Scotland Following previous Commonwealth Games - including the 2014 edition also held in Glasgow - dozens of athletes went missing in the aftermath, either going on to claim asylum or simply disappearing entirely. A Police Scotland spokesperson said: "Police Scotland has received reports of several athletes who are unaccounted for. "Inquiries are ongoing to assess the circumstances, and early engagement is taking place with the Home Office." The four missing boxers in Uganda were named by local media as Nuhu Batte, Angel Katushabe, Ibrahim Kemis and Emily Nakalema. When athletes vanish from sporting events Published 12 April 2018 Eight athletes 'desert' Commonwealth Games Published 11 April 2018 NBS Sports said it had spoken to one of the four missing boxers, who claimed the athletes intended to seek asylum and continue their boxing careers in a country they believed offered better training facilities and opportunities than their homeland. The boxer was said to have appealed to Ugandans for understanding and asked not to be judged for the decision. A spokesman for Team Uganda at the Games told BBC Scotland News the team had no comment to make. The rest of the Uganda squad have since departed for their home country. Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Angel Katushabe (red) competed in the recent Games in Glasgow Athletes were expected to leave the Games in line with the Glasgow 2026 length of stay policy, with Games accommodation ending two nights after each athlete's sport had concluded. Glasgow 2026 spokeswoman Sophie Ashcroft said: "Over the last two weeks, we have welcomed 3,000 athletes from 74 nations and territories of the Commonwealth to Glasgow. "As athletes and support staff leave the city, we continue to work closely with wider partners - including Police Scotland, Border Force and UK Visas & Immigration - to ensure a safe and secure conclusion to the Games." In 2014 two Ugandan rugby players disappeared after the contest ended and were later found playing rugby in Cardiff for a small team. One of the players, Philip Pariyo, was later jailed for four and a half years after raping a woman in Cardiff. Another athlete - weightlifter Cyrille Tchatchet II - also disappeared after the 2014 games to escape Cameroon. At those games he finished fifth, but his return in 2026 saw him win a silver medal . The Home Office is understood to carry out enhanced checks on people ahead of major sporting events such as the Games, while working with event sponsors to strengthen controls on who can enter the UK for such events. Any future asylum claims would be considered on their individual merits, with applications against the facts of the case and available evidence. The Games wrapped up on Sunday after 11 days of competition. Organisers said the streamlined format, which featured 10 sports across four locations in Glasgow, had "saved and reinvented" the competition after its future was placed in doubt when original hosts Victoria pulled out. Related topics Glasgow Glasgow 2026 Commonwealth Games More on this story Glasgow hailed for saving Games as baton passes to Amdavad Published 1 day ago Ex-refugee's 'full circle' Commonwealth Games win Published 1 day ago From other local news sites Two men arrested after group of motorcyclists 'struck by car in murder bid' External Paisley Gazette Brave Skylar, eight, gets locks chopped for charity - and in memory of her aunt External Irvine Times 'Help us save more dogs': Charity's plea to support pop-up shop venture External Cumnock Chronicle Mega cruise ship carrying thousands of passengers docks in Greenock External Greenock Telegraph Paisley thug who waved axe at sister and her friend to learn fate later this month External Paisley Gazette Ward clerks at Inverclyde Royal Hospital set to stage 48-hour strike over pay External Greenock Telegraph Information about BBC links to other news sites The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:01 Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack. 00:01:01, play video Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack 0:57 Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites. 00:00:57, play video Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport 1:01 What are the 'luteal uglies'? 00:01:01, play video What are the 'luteal uglies'? 0:59 Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 00:00:59, play video Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 0:40 US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak. 00:00:40, play video US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak 0:35 PC Harper's mother on early release for killers. 00:00:35, play video PC Harper's mother on early release for killers 0:41 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti. 00:00:41, play video 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti 0:54 Why Scotland's exam results come first. 00:00:54, play video Why Scotland's exam results come first 1:06 Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 00:01:06, play video Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 0:39 Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests. 00:00:39, play video Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests 1:09 Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos. 00:01:09, play video Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos 0:25 Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas. 00:00:25, play video Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas 0:45 Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer. 00:00:45, play video Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer 0:55 Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight. 00:00:55, play video Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight 0:27 Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend. 00:00:27, play video Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend 0:59 How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president. 00:00:59, play video How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president 1:57 Are some schools taking discipline too far? 00:01:57, play video Are some schools taking discipline too far? Top stories Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack Published 4 hours ago More than 170 migrants rescued after boat catches fire in Channel Published 2 hours ago Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece Published 2 hours ago More to explore Which area has the best grades? Key takeaways from Scotland's exam results How to avoid the worst of the Italian heat I left my wife and twins behind - why this Nigerian man fled South Africa Breast cancer checks missing most women under 50 who are at risk, says study There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger After three traumatic years at uni, I fear I won't get my dream nursing job Woman has pioneering womb surgery to fix 'miracle' baby with intestines outside its body Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC 'I said maybeeee...' Follow police investigations from the 999 call to conviction The return of the thrilling, award-winning drama about the CIA Tommy and John Fury debate what makes a home Most read 1 Athletes go 'missing' after Commonwealth Games ends 2 Princess Eugenie gives birth to baby girl in Portugal 3 Major search under way for boy, 13, missing at sea 4 Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack 5 Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece 6 Bono, Eddie Vedder and Hozier among mourners at Glen Hansard's funeral 7 Man 'driven insane' by noise admits killing fish 8 Care company fined for running illegal children's homes in legal first 9 Oil prices fall on hopes Strait of Hormuz could reopen 10 Ed Sheeran fined for failing to insure Aston Martin BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.