Sticky or slippery? Snails can change their slime to meet the moment : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Sticky or slippery? Snails can change their slime to meet the moment Snails are slimy. But there's more to that goo of theirs than meets the eye. It's a fact that may help inspire the creation of new materials. Research News Sticky or slippery? Snails can change their slime to meet the moment August 6, 2026 2:26 PM ET Heard on All Things Considered Ari Daniel Sticky or slippery? Snails can change their slime to meet the moment Listen · 3:35 3-Minute Listen Playlist Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5920383/nx-s1-9878264" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> A new study finds that snails can modulate the properties of their slime. Franziska Jehle/Max Planck Institute of Colloids and Interfaces hide caption toggle caption Franziska Jehle/Max Planck Institute of Colloids and Interfaces Slime is splattered across the animal kingdom. Tubeworms produce mucus that glows. Hagfish can make buckets of slime in an instant. And then there are snails. "Snail slime specifically is fascinating — a natural work of art," says Mariella Gabler , a Ph.D. student in physical chemistry at the Max Planck Institute of Colloids and Interfaces in Germany. "The complexity and functionality are mesmerizing." For new discoveries, everyday mysteries, and the science behind the headlines, follow NPR’s Short Wave podcast. To that end, Gabler and her colleagues wanted to know more about the composition of the slime of a particular kind of terrestrial species that's native to central Europe, called Cepaea nemoralis , or the brown-lipped snail. Sponsor Message Shots - Health News Slug Slime Inspires Scientists To Invent Sticky Surgical Glue In a paper published in the journal Science , the researchers reveal that these snails tune the relative proportions of certain proteins and ions to create five different types of mucus, each with their own function and distinctive properties. Understanding how the snails make different types of slime could serve engineers well in the creation of new materials, says Gabler, "because now they have a system that can produce different materials based on the same principal components." She points to numerous potential applications, including developing a slime that might help seal a wound or deliver a drug. A tiny mucus factory The brown-lipped snail is a many-hued wonder. "It can come in a lot of different colors and patterns," says Gabler. "The shell colors are nuances of yellow, white, brown or pink." Strange News A Slimy Discovery: New Fossil Found Of Jawless, Backless Hagfish And it produces an array of mucuses whose structures serve different purposes. First, there's a sticky, yet slippery lubricant mucus that the snails use for locomotion, allowing them to adhere to a surface while gliding along with minimal friction. They produce two types of defensive mucus. "When it feels stressed or threatened, it can produce either a foam, for example, to wash out small pests or a sticky glue to immobilize them," says Gabler. There's a protective mucus that the snails use to seal themselves inside their shells in the winter. And they make an adhesive mucus, which allows them to cling to everything from wood to glass to aluminum. Mariella Gabler, a Ph.D. student in physical chemistry at the Max Planck Institute of Colloids and Interfaces in Germany, says snail mucus is "mesmerizing." Sarah Jade Sullivan hide caption toggle caption Sarah Jade Sullivan "The versatility makes it a perfect model system to understand how it can tune these different types of mucus according to its needs," Gabler explains. Sponsor Message Gabler and her colleagues collected the snails they needed on rainy days right outside their institute. They fed them cucumbers, salad, and lichen. Animals How the way red-tailed hawks adapt could change rehab efforts and aircraft design And then Gabler coaxed the snails to produce each of their five slimes. She collected the adhesive and protective mucuses using thin tweezers. And she gathered the lubricant mucus when the snails secreted it as they moved around a wet glass bowl. For the defensive mucuses, Gabler had to trick the snails by tickling them "and then collecting the mucus with a spatula that has a tiny spoon on its end," she says. Following the mucus trail Armed with a little bit of each mucus, the researchers then analyzed the samples to determine their composition. They found that they all contain similar proteins but the concentrations of those proteins vary. Plus, distinct amounts of calcium and other ions, along with differences in how the slimes are secreted — give rise to the five varieties of mucus. "The more collagen and calcium were present," says Gabler, "the stiffer, more cohesive and sticky mucus became." The protective mucus, for instance, contains tiny calcite crystals "that induce hardness and brittleness into the material at the same time, making it a perfect mechanical barrier during hibernation," she says. "There are immense potential applications," says Kausik Mukhopadhyay , a materials scientist at the University of Central Florida who wasn't involved in the study. "It could be cancer research, drug delivery, cosmetics." He says that the lubricant mucus could be tweaked for use with catheters to help them glide into place in the body with less friction. The adhesive mucus, he adds, might be developed into something to help close a wound. In other words, there's much to learn from a slimy snail. "Nature is always smarter than us," says Mukhopadhyay. "We are just maybe 0.1% to what nature has synthesized — that is where we are right now." Sponsor Message So at least for the moment, the snails still have a head start. snails bioinspired design materials science slime Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Health A new flu vaccine geared to older people is coming soon Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after Health Black lung rates in Appalachia are high as the 1970s, with thousands of miners sick TV Reviews 'Furious' is an unforgettable thriller, not just a 'Black Widow' remake Author Interviews Death is everywhere in the desert — it's where Claire Vaye Watkins feels most alive Politics Senate Homeland Security committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress More Stories From NPR Science Video: Scientists watch orcas ram a sunfish so hard it explodes Science A strange transmissible cancer is spreading through the catfish in this lake National Critical fire weather complicates firefighting efforts in massive Utah wildfire Science Is a transparent fish the future of brain science? This center is betting on it Science Socioeconomic factors are becoming 'biologically embedded' in children's brains Science Bumblebees have tiny brains but they can solve problems like chimps and elephants Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after Middle East conflict Iran aims to ban U.S. and Israeli ships from Strait of Hormuz and charge others a toll Politics Senate Homeland Security committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress Health A new flu vaccine geared to older people is coming soon Politics The park service says Trump's arch would obstruct historic sites. Could it be moved? Education Trump administration moves to deregulate Head Start, opening door for sweeping change NPR Editors' Picks Author Interviews Death is everywhere in the desert — it's where Claire Vaye Watkins feels most alive Sports European nations say World Cup boycott is still on, keeping FIFA's Infantino in limbo Global Health This country is the latest to hit the elusive 95/95/95 HIV target TV Reviews 'Furious' is an unforgettable thriller, not just a 'Black Widow' remake Politics Celebrity culture is one thing. For TMZ, Congress is the new 'reality show' The Ripple Effect The keepers of the Grateful Dead's history Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices