Big water cutbacks ordered amid Colorado River shortage - Los Angeles Times News Home Page California Election 2024 Housing & Homelessness Politics Science & Medicine World & Nation Business Artificial Intelligence Autos Jobs, Labor & Workplace Real Estate Technology & the Internet California California Politics Earthquakes Education Housing & Homelessness L.A. Influential L.A. Politics Mental Health Climate & Environment Climate Change Water & Drought Entertainment & Arts Arts Books Stand-Up Comedy Hollywood Inc. The Envelope (Awards) Movies Music Television Things to Do De Los En Español Food 101 Best Restaurants in L.A. Recipes Image Art & Culture Conversations Drip Index: Event Guides Fashion Shopping Guides Styling Myself Lifestyle Health & Wellness Home Design L.A. Affairs Plants Travel & Experiences Weekend Things to Do in L.A. Obituaries Voices Editorials Letters to the Editor Contributors Short Docs Sports Angels Angel City FC Chargers Clippers Dodgers Ducks Galaxy High School Sports Kings Lakers Olympics USC UCLA Rams Sparks World & Nation Immigration & the Border Mexico & the Americas Middle East Ukraine Times Everywhere 404 by L.A. Times Facebook Instagram LA Times Today Newsletters Photography Podcasts Short Docs TikTok Threads Video YouTube X (Twitter) For Subscribers eNewspaper All Sections _________________ LA Times Studios BUSINESS • AI & Tech • Automotive • Banking & Finance • Commercial Real Estate • Entertainment • Goods & Retail • Innovators Unplugged • Healthcare & Science • Law • Sports • Orange County HOT PROPERTY • Decor & Design • Homes For Sale LIVE & WELL • Fitness • Beauty • Body • Longevity TRAVEL • Trip Ideas • Travel Destinations • Travel Themes • Travel Experiences THE HUB: REBUILDING LA DOCTORS & SCIENTISTS DEALS & COUPONS NEWSLETTERS Live Stream Events Screening Series Crossword Games L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Group Subscriptions Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip? L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store LA Times Studios Capabilities News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance & Permissions Short Docs Advertising Classifieds Find/Post Jobs Hot Property Sections Local Ads Marketplace L.A. Times Digital Agency Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? Place an Ad Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Special Supplements Healthy Living Higher Education Philanthropy Sections Tap to enable a layout that focuses on the article. Focus mode Show Search Search Query Submit Search Advertisement Climate & Environment Major water cutbacks loom as shrinking Colorado River nears ‘moment of reckoning’ Exposed banks of Lake Mead behind Hoover Dam show how low water levels have dropped on the Colorado River-fed reservoir due to persistent and worsening drought. (Luis Sinco / Los Angeles Times) By Ian James Staff Writer Follow June 14, 2022 Updated 6:44 PM PT 110 Share via Close extra sharing options Email Facebook X LinkedIn Threads Reddit WhatsApp Copy Link URL Copied! Print p]:text-cms-story-body-color-text" data-subscriber-content> As the West endures another year of unrelenting drought worsened by climate change , the Colorado River’s reservoirs have declined so low that major water cuts will be necessary next year to reduce risks of supplies reaching perilously low levels, a top federal water official said Tuesday. Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner Camille Calimlim Touton said during a Senate hearing in Washington that federal officials now believe protecting “critical levels” at the country’s largest reservoirs — Lake Mead and Lake Powell — will require much larger reductions in water deliveries. “A warmer, drier West is what we are seeing today,” Touton told the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. “And the challenges we are seeing today are unlike anything we have seen in our history.” Advertisement California For Subscribers SoCal’s lush golf courses face new water restrictions. How brown will the grass go? Southern California golf courses are being told to cut water use under new drought rules. Managers say they plan to let some grass turn brown. June 13, 2022 The needed cuts, she said, amount to between 2 million and 4 million acre-feet next year. For comparison, California is entitled to 4.4 million acre-feet of Colorado River water per year, while Arizona’s allotment is 2.8 million. The push for a new emergency deal to cope with the Colorado River’s shrinking flow comes just seven months after officials from California, Arizona and Nevada signed an agreement to take significantly less water out of Lake Mead, and six weeks after the federal government announced it is holding back a large quantity of water in Lake Powell to reduce risks of the reservoir dropping to a point where Glen Canyon Dam would no longer generate electricity. Despite those efforts and a previous deal among the states to share in the shortages, the two reservoirs stand at or near record-low levels. Lake Mead near Las Vegas has dropped to 28% of its full capacity, while Lake Powell on the Utah-Arizona border is now just 27% full. Advertisement Touton said it’s critical to achieve the additional cutbacks and her agency is in talks with the seven states that depend on the river to develop a plan for the reductions in the next 60 days. She warned that the Bureau of Reclamation has the authority to “act unilaterally to protect the system, and we will protect the system.” Though Touton didn’t spell out what that could entail, the Interior Department could impose cuts if the states fail to reach an agreement on their own. Touton said her agency is “working with the states and tribes in having this discussion.” “We need to see the work. We need to see the action,” Touton said, calling for representatives of the states “to stay at the table until the job is done.” The Colorado River supplies water to nearly 40 million people in cities from Denver to Los Angeles and farmlands from the Rocky Mountains to the U.S.-Mexico border. The river has long been over-allocated, and its reservoirs have declined dramatically since 2000 during a severe drought that research shows is being intensified by global warming and that some scientists describe as the long-term “aridification” of the Southwest. Climate & Environment These five people could make or break the Colorado River The Imperial Irrigation District wields enormous power in the American West. June 16, 2022 “What has been a slow-motion train wreck for 20 years is accelerating, and the moment of reckoning is near,” said John Entsminger, general manager of the Southern Nevada Water Authority, which supplies the Las Vegas area. He pointed out that Lake Mead’s water level, now at 1,045 feet above sea level, has continued to decline toward critically low levels. Hoover Dam could still release water down to a level of 895 feet, but below that, water would no longer pass through the dam to supply California, Arizona and Mexico — a level known as “dead pool.” Advertisement “We are 150 feet from 25 million Americans losing access to the Colorado River, and the rate of decline is accelerating,” Entsminger told the senators. Avoiding “potentially catastrophic conditions,” Entsminger said, will require reductions that many water managers previously considered unattainable. In talking with representatives of other states, Entsminger said, they all recognize the urgency of the situation and are working to increase conservation efforts. “However, and there’s no way around this, cities alone cannot address this crisis,” Entsminger said. Entsminger pointed out that roughly 80% of the river’s flow is used for agriculture, and most of that for thirsty crops like alfalfa, which is mainly grown for cattle, both in the U.S. and overseas. “I’m not suggesting that farmers stop farming, but rather that they carefully consider crop selection and make the investments needed to optimize irrigation efficiency,” Entsminger said. “By reducing their use of Colorado River water, agricultural entities are protecting their own interests.” Advertisement California Hellish fires, low pay, trauma: California’s Forest Service firefighters face a morale crisis A federal firefighter’s viral resignation letter is highlighting the job’s low pay and harsh working conditions in the age of climate change. June 14, 2022 Last year, the federal government declared a shortage on the Colorado River for the first time, triggering substantial cutbacks in water deliveries to Arizona, Nevada and Mexico. Farmers in parts of Arizona have left some fields dry and unplanted , and have turned to more groundwater pumping . The cuts have yet to limit supplies for Southern California, but that could change as the reservoirs continue to drop. The timeline that Touton laid out, to come up with an agreement for water reductions within 60 days, puts the deadline just before the Bureau of Reclamation is scheduled to release its mid-August projections for reservoir levels on the river. Those projections determine the level of the shortage in 2023 and the severity of the required cuts in deliveries. “Let’s get to the table, and let’s figure this out by August,” Touton said. “That’s what we’re working towards.” Exactly how reductions will be achieved has yet to be negotiated. Some previous water-saving arrangements have involved paying growers to temporarily fallow land. Some tribes have also agreed to leave a portion of their water supplies in Lake Mead in exchange for compensation. Most of the river’s flow begins as snow and rainfall in the Rocky Mountains. But during the severe dry spell over the past 22 years in the Colorado River Basin, hotter temperatures triggered by accumulating greenhouse gases have intensified the dryness across the watershed. Advertisement With warmer temperatures, vegetation has taken up more water, more moisture has evaporated off the landscape, and soils have been baked dry, leaving less runoff flowing in streams and into the river. The amount of runoff flowing into Lake Powell this spring and summer is estimated to be just 59% of average. The hearing focused on solutions to extreme drought in the West, but Democratic Senator Martin Heinrich of New Mexico stressed that the dryness is unprecedented and that the word drought doesn’t fully describe the crisis. Climate & Environment Yosemite undergoes forest-thinning project due to wildfire risk; environmentalists want it stopped Forest thinning is now being conducted at Yosemite National Park. Environmentalists want it to stop, saying the work was never fully vetted. June 14, 2022 “It’s frankly a direct result of the lack of action on climate that we have seen for more than 20 years,” Heinrich said. Maurice Hall, who leads the Environmental Defense Fund’s water program, said adaptation is critical. “We have in the past tended to view our water management through a lens of stability,” Hall said. “We have to throw all that out and increase our real-time and near real-time monitoring and information processing, and be prepared to make adjustments as we discover how the new climate processes are affecting our water resources.” Advertisement Patrick O’Toole, president of the Family Farm Alliance, expressed concerns about what could happen if water is taken away from agriculture, including the potential for harming rural communities and food production. Entsminger said he agrees that the country needs to prioritize food security, but the fact remains that the water supply and demand are out of balance. “We can’t balance the structural deficit by evacuating cities. So we’re going to need to make our ability to grow the same amount of food with less water a priority,” Entsminger said. “Every user in every sector needs to be planning for how they’re going to take care of their share of the pain.” Some of the senators and water officials also discussed how the federal government could help accelerate infrastructure projects such as building new wastewater recycling plants. While developing regionwide plans to immediately cut water use next year, the seven states in the Colorado River Basin are also preparing to negotiate new rules for dealing with shortages after 2026, when the current rules are set to expire. Alongside those negotiations, former Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt has called for revamping the 1922 Colorado River Compact , the foundational agreement that divided the river among the states, to adapt to the reduced amount of water that is available in the watershed. Advertisement Touton said in her written testimony that the Bureau of Reclamation will issue a notice this month to ask for input on development of new post-2026 rules. For now, Touton said, she is focusing on securing the additional conservation that’s needed next year in talks with the states. She wrote that these reductions are needed “to protect the Colorado River system infrastructure and the long-term stability of the system.” More to Read As Colorado River reservoirs plummet, the Trump administration orders water cuts Aug. 21, 2026 Trump administration spares Southwest from harshest water cuts in new Colorado River plan July 31, 2026 California dodges a bullet on Colorado River cuts July 23, 2026 Show Comments Climate & Environment California Water & Drought Toward a more sustainable California Get Boiling Point, our newsletter exploring climate change, energy and the environment, and become part of the conversation — and the solution. By continuing, you agree to our Terms of Service , which include arbitration and a class action waiver. You agree that we and our third-party vendors may collect and use your information, including through cookies, pixels and similar technologies, for the purposes set forth in our Privacy Policy such as personalizing your experience and ads. Login or register with email Agree & Continue Ian James Follow Us X Email Bluesky Ian James is a reporter who focuses on water and climate change in California and the West. Before joining the Los Angeles Times in 2021, he was an environment reporter at the Arizona Republic and the Desert Sun. He previously worked for the Associated Press as a correspondent in the Caribbean and as bureau chief in Venezuela. Follow him on Bluesky @ianjames.bsky.social and on X @ByIanJames. More From the Los Angeles Times Climate & Environment Tons of planet-warming gases are bubbling up from reservoirs. California is going to keep track Aug. 27, 2026 Climate & Environment Big oil and gas companies are partly responsible for California’s water woes, study finds Aug. 26, 2026 Climate & Environment Nevada sues Trump administration over its Colorado River plan Aug. 24, 2026 Climate & Environment Amid controversy, California officials release long-awaited Delta water plan Aug. 19, 2026 Podcasts For Homes Still Standing, Lead And Other Toxins Are Still A Concern The latest effort is coming from the L.A. County Board of Supervisors. They just announced a $3 million program in conjunction with some nonprofits groups to test and clean the soil at homes still standing in the areas impacted by the Eaton Fire. Can Offshore Wind Survive the Trump Administration? California once bet big on offshore wind to help power its clean-energy future, but the Trump administration is now paying developers billions to walk away from their projects. As California’s remaining offshore-wind leases hang in the balance, the state is fighting back in court. Subscribers are Reading Notorious crouching sniffer known throughout Glendale and Burbank is arrested again After years of the snarky grind, ‘Club Kid’ feels transformative for Jordan Firstman At Daisy Chain Fields, the Lilith Fair generation passes the torch Reports split over whether forced contraception of Greenlandic women and girls constituted genocide For Subscribers Here are the highest- and lowest-earning college degrees in California, according to new data Advertisement Latest Climate & Environment California lawmakers kill wildfire bill after utility complaints Sept. 1, 2026 Tropical Storm Edouard arrives on Texas and Louisiana coasts after gaining strength in Gulf Sept. 1, 2026 Mass burials in Nepal as death toll from flash floods exceeds 1,000 Sept. 1, 2026 One hot day can change your body for years Sept. 1, 2026 Voices Contributor: To stop Trump’s pillaging, ‘vote the ocean’ this fall Sept. 1, 2026 Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Subscribe for unlimited access Site Map Follow Us X Instagram YouTube Facebook eNewspaper Find/Post Jobs Place an Ad Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? Invest Now: Own a Part of History MORE FROM THE L.A. TIMES Crossword Obituaries Recipes Guides L.A. Times Store About/Contact For the Record L.A. Times Careers Manage Subscription Reprints and Permissions Copyright © 2026, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information