Serious questions for Cambridge after professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions Cambridgeshire Serious questions for Cambridge after professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns Image source, ITV/Shutterstock Image caption, Arday has admitted errors in his work, but says he has faced "an unrelenting level of public scrutiny and personal attack" and is not a "liar" By Branwen Jeffreys Education editor Published 6 August 2026 The University of Cambridge is facing serious questions about its academic standards and push for diversity after its youngest black professor resigned amid allegations of copying other academics' research. Jason Arday's appointment in 2023 was hailed at the time as a progressive moment. Now, Cambridge says it has launched an investigation after "new information" emerged about his academic qualifications and honorary appointments. There are two fundamental questions for the university. Did it fail to adequately check Arday's credentials when appointing him, and did it defend that decision because of an institutional push to position itself as more diverse? For one of the world's leading universities known for academic excellence and globally significant research, this is about its institutional culture and decision-making at the highest level. The biggest reputational risk surrounds the accusations of academic plagiarism now under investigation - and denied by Arday - because they get to the heart of what a university is about. The University of Cambridge uses the common definition of plagiarism as "passing off someone else's work as if it were your own without appropriate acknowledgement". There is no allegation more serious that can be levelled at an academic. One of the fundamental purposes of a research-led university is the creation of knowledge through original thinking, insights and inquiry. The quality of this is the foundation of Cambridge's reputation, and a source of significant funding. Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns Published 1 day ago Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row defends his work Published 5 days ago Arday did not start his university journey at an elite institution. He has a degree from the University of Surrey in education studies and physical education, a master's from St Mary's University in London, and a PhD in education awarded by Liverpool John Moores University. The reason the PhD has attracted so much attention is because it is the first major piece of original research anyone wanting a career as an academic must complete. Arday's critics claim that his work relied on copying other academics without properly crediting their work from the outset, which he denies. He went on to become an associate professor at Durham University and professor of sociology of education at the University of Glasgow. In other words, there is a line of institutions behind Cambridge now facing similar questions about their appointment processes. The entire higher education system relies on accepting the qualifications awarded by another institution in good faith. Regulation and standards are meant to create a common currency. That has now unravelled with what began as a blog a couple of years ago escalating in recent weeks, with more journalists unpicking aspects of Arday's life story and asking questions. Figure caption, Why has Cambridge's youngest black professor resigned? It is at this point Cambridge faces questions about whether it was defending its own reputation as much as an individual academic. Just a couple of weeks ago, the university was briefing journalists that this was a campaign against a black academic, its appointment system was rigorous, and it would be robustly defended. So why might Cambridge have had a blind spot that delayed an investigation which could settle the matter? The university has spent the last decade working to redress the perception that the institution is a bastion of affluent white privilege. Roger Mosey, the former master of the university's Selwyn College, said Arday's academic background was "unconventional" for a Cambridge professor, but that his life story as an autistic man who said he could not read until he was 18 was what had seemingly "made him a compelling candidate". Equality, diversity and inclusion are reasonable goals for a leading university, Mosey wrote in the Times, but risk becoming contentious "when they are baked into inflexible policies and questionable appointment processes". Part of the answer may also lie in how black academics feel in general as part of a tiny minority in the wider university community. In the last academic year, only 75 of Cambridge's 6,180 academics at all levels were identified as black, according to the Higher Education Statistics Authority (HESA). If you look at professors across the UK, 270 are identified as black out of a total of more than 26,000, according to HESA definitions - around 1%. The University and College Union has previously highlighted an ethnicity pay gap and called for it to be redressed. It declined to comment on this case. Both Cambridge and Oxford have faced sustained scrutiny over their whiteness as institutions, with vocal critics over the last 15 years including the MP David Lammy. He extracted data from the universities showing how few offers were made to black students despite the number being awarded top A-Level grades which would potentially qualify them for a place. In 2018, Cambridge said it needed help to attract more talented black students, and unexpectedly the rapper Stormzy answered the call by setting up a scholarship to encourage students to apply. Although the support was for a handful of students, it was a reputational coup for the university - allowing it to position itself as a more open and inclusive institution. Now it will have to balance the potential reputational fall out of the Jason Arday row for its academic credibility, with how that might be perceived by future talented black students and academics. Related topics University of Cambridge Universities The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:05 What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:05, play video What we know about the Thailand school shooting 1:11 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 00:01:11, play video 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 0:39 How much rain will end the drought? 00:00:39, play video How much rain will end the drought? 1:43 Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment. 00:01:43, play video Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment 0:24 Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol. 00:00:24, play video Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol 1:00 What is 'food noise'? 00:01:00, play video What is 'food noise'? 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:00 What do people want from Argos? 00:01:00, play video What do people want from Argos? 0:58 Meet Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 New hope for Afghan women's football team. 00:01:19, play video New hope for Afghan women's football team 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house hit in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house hit in strike Top stories Live . Several dead after Thai teen shoots grandparents and schoolteachers 9872 viewing 9.9k viewing Thai pupil describes harrowing moment teacher was shot in front of her Published 44 minutes ago Officer who led PC Harper investigation 'appalled' killers could be released early Published 1 hour ago More to explore Argos is getting a makeover - but can it attract new shoppers? Lauryn Hill and Wyclef ‘in an amazing place’ as fans hope for new Fugees album after 30 years How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man ‘We have nowhere to return to’: How Russia is seizing homes in occupied Ukraine Sudan's invisible children - born in war with no legal identity First OpenAI, now Meta - why do AI hacks keep happening? The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 England footballer Toney charged with assault in Soho 2 Further arrests in Thetford as disorder continues for third night 3 Officer who led PC Harper investigation 'appalled' killers could be released early 4 How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man 5 Meta fined $567m in largest child safety ruling against social media giant 6 Trump again tries to limit US birthright citizenship with new executive orders 7 'Tories to end social housing for foreigners' and 'Bottoms down' 8 German airport drone-bomb: Could Russia be involved? 9 Argos is getting a makeover - but can it attract new shoppers? 10 Weekly quiz: Ed Sheeran got in trouble with the DVLA over which make of classic car? BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.