The Hundred 2026 results: Sunrisers Leeds post record total as Harry Brook hits 15-ball fifty - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs The Hundred Men's Scores & Fixtures Women's Scores & Fixtures Men's Tables Women's Tables Squads Brilliant Brook leads Sunrisers to record Hundred score Figure caption, Highlights: Sunrisers Leeds rewrite the record books in win against London Spirit By Ffion Wynne BBC Sport Journalist Published 4 August 2026, 22:01 BST Updated 55 minutes ago The Hundred men's competition, Headingley Sunrisers Leeds 241-2 (100 balls): Rickelton 94* (42), Marsh 76 (37), Brook 55 (18) London Spirit 204-6 (100 balls): Willey 83* (46); Topley 2-30 Sunrisers Leeds won by 37 runs Scorecard . Table Harry Brook shone with a sensational 15-ball fifty as Sunrisers Leeds posted the highest total in Hundred history in their 37-run win against London Spirit. Having put in to bat at Headingley, opener Ryan Rickelton also struck 94 not out off 42 balls in Sunrisers' astonishing 241-2. Such was the entertainment provided by Brook and the power shown by Rickelton, Mitchell Marsh's brutal 76 off 37 at the top of the order almost went unnoticed. On a flat pitch, Marsh and Rickelton added 148 for the first wicket which gave Brook, England's limited-overs captain, the licence to go berserk. He whacked five sixes and five fours with a combination of power and flair, including a monstrous six over mid-wicket to surpass the previous highest team total of 226. Brook and Rickelton added 83 off 32 balls for the second wicket as Spirit's bowlers wilted, with the South African stranded short of his century as he was starved of the strike at the close of the innings. After the carnage inflicted on their bowlers, Spirit made a disastrous start to their reply as Jonny Bairstow fell first ball to Reece Topley, and the rest of the top order also buckled under the pressure as they slipped to 44-4. But former England all-rounder David Willey performed an admirable rescue act and saved Spirit from humiliation with 83 not out from 46 balls as the visiting side finished on 204-6. The result takes Sunrisers to fourth in the table and keeps them in play-off contention, but leaves Spirit struggling in seventh. Figure caption, Every six from a record-breaking Sunrisers innings Sunrisers' record-breaking innings in numbers Sunrisers' 241-2 surpassed Oval Invincibles 226-4 for the highest team total, which they made against Welsh Fire in 2025 Rickelton and Marsh's opening stand of 148 was the highest partnership in The Hundred, beating Jimmy Neesham and Tom Curran's 127 for Invincibles v Manchester Originals in 2023 Brook's fifty was the joint fastest in Hundred history, equalling Adam Rossington's for London Spirit against Northern Superchargers in 2022 Brook's strike rate of 305.55 was the fourth highest for a Hundred innings Sunrisers hit 21 sixes in their innings (Marsh seven, Rickelton eight, Brook five and Dan Lawrence one). This smashes the previous Hundred record (17) There were 31 sixes hit overall, the most in a Hundred match – beating the previous best of 29 between Birmingham Phoenix and Trent Rockets earlier this summer The aggregate total of 445 also beat the record of 418 from that game Sutherland holds nerve as Sunrisers edge past Spirit Published 4 hours ago The Hundred 2026 tables, top run-scorers & wicket-takers Published 12 hours ago Who am I? Guess The Hundred cricket star No 15 Published 15 hours ago 'A masterclass' in white-ball striking For Brook to outshine both Marsh and Rickelton, when the pair were so ruthlessly dominating Spirit's bowlers, indicates just how special his knock was. Marsh kick-started the innings with his trademark ferocious strength, regularly clubbing the ball down the ground, and by the time he had reached a 24-ball half-century, Rickelton had only faced five deliveries himself. The Australian fell with only 35 balls left in the innings but there was no respite for Spirit, as Rickelton continued to advance to his fifty off 21 balls before Yorkshire's Brook ignited the lively Headingley crowd. Spirit's bowlers tried everything, but with no reward. When Jamie Overton perfected his wide yorker, Brook simply reached across and audaciously sliced it over deep third for six. "That was a masterclass on how to strike the white ball," ex-England captain Michael Vaughan said on BBC Two. "A few of Harry's shots had a bit of finesse towards the end, but it was just brute power. It's not easy for bowlers, the pitch is very flat, but London Spirit weren't on it. "He is just brilliant. Sometimes we watch some of his innings in Test cricket and we say, 'Come on, Harry, you're better than that.' "And we don't really give him the credit for the way that he assesses what the bowler is going to bowl to him, and he's got so many options to every delivery. He is a wonderful player." What is happening on Wednesday? There are four games taking place, starting with Manchester Super Giants hosting Welsh Fire at Old Trafford at 11:30 BST followed by the men's game at 15:00. Trent Rockets face Birmingham Phoenix at Trent Bridge in the second double header, with the women playing at 15:00 and the men at 18:30. You can watch both games on BBC Two and iPlayer. You can follow ball-by-ball commentary of all games on BBC Radio 5 Sports Extra, BBC Sounds and the BBC Sport website and app. Related topics Cricket The Hundred Franchise Cricket More on this story Get cricket news sent straight to your phone Published 8 June Shorts Previous Next 1:29 Could Pollock be paid £1m a season? It's complicated... 00:01:29, play video Could Pollock be paid £1m a season? It's complicated... 0:27 Maresca very similar to Pep - Foden. 00:00:27, play video Maresca very similar to Pep - Foden 0:41 Wenger speaks out about Infantino's World Cup plan. 00:00:41, play video Wenger speaks out about Infantino's World Cup plan 0:59 Why does a Swedish club want to pay £1m for a National League player? 00:00:59, play video Why does a Swedish club want to pay £1m for a National League player? 1:30 Goodburn's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Goodburn's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:33 Alonso on Mudryk's first day back with Chelsea squad. 00:00:33, play video Alonso on Mudryk's first day back with Chelsea squad 0:58 Aston Villa finally register signing after court battle. 00:00:58, play video Aston Villa finally register signing after court battle 0:59 Mudryk is back, but what actually happened? 00:00:59, play video Mudryk is back, but what actually happened? 0:52 Legends and fans in Milan mourn Baresi. 00:00:52, play video Legends and fans in Milan mourn Baresi Top stories Infantino calls executive meeting as criticism mounts Published 2 hours ago Turkish club Trabzonspor begin talks to sign Salah Published 35 minutes ago Drinking culture embedded in cricket - Stokes Published 9 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC Detective Lindo and the team are back in a brand new series Professor David Keith answers questions on climate engineering The chilling story of how a debt-ridden undertaker betrayed grieving families The return of the thrilling, award-winning drama about the CIA Elsewhere in Sport Why £1m-a-season deal will be hard for Pollock and Hearn to find A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season Runs and records galore as Sunrisers beat Spirit in men's Hundred. Video Runs and records galore as Sunrisers beat Spirit in men's Hundred Why we are still waiting for the 'Newey effect' - F1 Q&A Meet the £1m-rated non-league star Abdulmalik The summer that changed Welsh football The ex-sandwich maker who cycles to Champions League games Inside Liverpool's summer so far - should fans be worried? How Mumbai Indians takeover has affected MI London & Surrey From European hopes to relegation form - will Moyes reignite Everton? 'Nothing is strange' - how clubs prepare for the transfer window 'No guarantees' - joyful Glasgow cannot banish all Commonwealth doubts Finucane 'screaming inside' after record-breaking Games Dog walk and expletive text - key findings in Vondrousova anti-doping case Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.