BBC hires 26-year-old entrepreneur to help reach younger audiences | BBC | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Support the Guardian Last chance to fund independent journalism with 50% off Claim discount Claim discount Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters Brandon Relph has jokingly described himself as ‘the go-to guy who knows the youth’. Photograph: Facebook View image in fullscreen Brandon Relph has jokingly described himself as ‘the go-to guy who knows the youth’. Photograph: Facebook BBC BBC hires 26-year-old entrepreneur to help reach younger audiences Brandon Relph, who founded first company at 13, joins strategy team in ‘much-needed step’ for the broadcaster Michael Savage Media editor Thu 6 Aug 2026 11.00 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 11.21 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google A 26-year-old business prodigy and self-styled gen Z whisperer has been drafted in by the BBC as it battles to reach young audiences increasingly choosing content creators on YouTube and TikTok over traditional broadcasters. Brandon Relph, who founded his first company aged 13, and has been praised by Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak, has joined the BBC’s strategy team to help counter the existential threat of falling audiences among young people. Relph has jokingly described himself as “the go-to guy who knows the youth” and has already had a dizzying career. He made his first £10,000 before the age of 16 with a company based around the Minecraft video game and founded several other tech and marketing companies as a teenager. The BBC, along with all broadcasters, is facing a huge generational shift in the way young audiences consume media. While 78% of the over-75s still watch live TV on a television in the course of a month, less than half of 16 to 24-year-olds do so , turning instead to content creators on digital platforms such as YouTube. Matt Brittin, the new director general brought in for his experience in the tech world, has pledged to reshape the BBC as part of the renewal of its royal charter, which is being negotiated with ministers. View image in fullscreen Matt Brittin took over as the new BBC director general in May. Photograph: Chris J Ratcliffe/Reuters Prioritising digital content will be reflected in the major cuts being made across the BBC’s services. The corporation is already trying to adapt, recently announcing a deal to produce bespoke YouTube content . Relph, who previously claimed the title of the UK’s youngest ever chief executive, has specialised in talking to executives about marketing to young audiences, stating his businesses have been “built on people’s lack of understanding of our generation”. His exploits have included building a large online audience for live video gameshows, while his company also built a Minecraft version of a Tesla after he and his business partner met Elon Musk at a convention. Those familiar with his past entrepreneurial efforts said he had encountered resistance within the media industry to embrace online content creators, which he sees as necessary to reach young audiences. That resistance is now melting away. Another of his projects, touted as a “Netflix for the creator generation”, could not find the venture capital needed. Relph was subsequently hired by the consulting firm Accenture, from where he joined the BBC. Relph has already started in the BBC’s strategy team, with insiders praising his gen Z focus. Previous colleagues described him as a “special case”, stating he was popular with his teams and willing to politely question senior executives over their strategy despite his young age. His appointment has been praised by figures pushing the BBC to take a radically different approach to reaching young audiences, but they also said it needed to reflect a wider effort. “Brandon looks great – he’s somebody who’s had a very successful career, done brilliant work and is obviously very talented,” said Jordan Schwarzenberger, the manager of the Sidemen YouTube collective. “He’s clearly an entrepreneur at heart. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Every weekday Sign up to First Edition Our morning email breaks down the key stories of the day, telling you what’s happening and why it matters Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion “The BBC’s challenge is a bigger issue than one hire. They need to address that institutional media, distributed traditionally, can’t reach an audience who have simply gone to other places. Young audiences are not watching linear. And the BBC is pretty much built upon its linear broadcasting foundation.” Relph has previously criticised the iPlayer over its user experience and said that the “BBC won’t have a long term future” without a greater focus on younger people. AI labels to be compulsory on authentic-looking content under EU rules Read more Some in the BBC argue its efforts to adapt to young audiences are already well under way. It is the only UK brand in the top five most used media for the 16-34 age group, alongside YouTube, Instagram, Facebook and Netflix. It still reaches 63% of the age group on average, each week. However, BBC figures are acutely aware of the scale of the challenge. “Brandon’s appointment is a much-needed step,” said Jo Redfern, a former BBC insider and digital media expert. “Anyone tasked with making the BBC indispensable to the under-24s requires a momentum internally and externally because there’s an urgency. “The BBC has been foundational in British life and envied around the world, but it risks losing that position with younger [groups] and it would be a shame if that were to happen. “The BBC’s instinct is that of a broadcaster, the very definition of which is one way, at a time when young people demand a participatory relationship with media. Every barrier to that is a reason to go elsewhere and there’s no shortage of places to find media that fulfils their needs.” Explore more on these topics BBC Digital media YouTube news Share Reuse this content Most viewed ‘Basically, you give yourself to the man’: Trewley Precious Temple on her life as a Gypsy wife – and beyond Study finds three midlife health factors that could delay dementia for 13 years The real meaning of Abdul El-Sayed’s victory in Michigan Robert Reich An Israeli professor lost a prestigious US job offer after speaking out on Gaza. Now the university is paying him $250,000 Miss North Carolina USA stripped of title after alleged racist posts resurface Most viewed Most viewed Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)