Perez Hilton hospitalized after reports he livestreamed self-harm, sheriff’s officials say IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Politics U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline U.S. news Perez Hilton hospitalized after reports he livestreamed self-harm, sheriff’s officials say The blogger recently returned to his native Miami after living in Las Vegas. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Add to Google Blogger Perez Hilton receiving medical care after appearing to self-harm online 02:44 Get more news on Share Add to Google Aug. 5, 2026, 1:07 AM EDT / Updated Aug. 6, 2026, 1:34 AM EDT By Emilie Dorn , Dennis Romero and Matt Lavietes Perez Hilton was “receiving medical care” Wednesday, the celebrity blogger and podcaster’s team and family said, after police responded to his Miami-area home following reports that he appeared to engage in self-harm during a livestream. A spokesperson for the Miami-Dade Sheriff’s Office told NBC News that deputies responded to reports Tuesday night of someone “who was livestreaming acts of self-harm on social media.” The statement, sent via email in response to an inquiry about Hilton, did not name him. In a follow-up statement, the sheriff’s office said the person was “safely recovered” and taken by Miami-Dade Fire Rescue to a hospital, where he was receiving medical attention. Deputies also spoke to family members at the scene, who confirmed the person had been alone inside the residence, the sheriff’s office added. In a statement Wednesday on Hilton’s website, his team and family said that they were “incredibly grateful for the overwhelming outpouring of love, support, and prayers.” “We can confirm that Perez is receiving medical care, and our family’s focus right now is on his well-being,” the statement said. “We kindly ask that you respect Perez’s privacy, as well as the privacy of his family, during this difficult time.” In a separate statement Wednesday night, the family said Hilton “is able to communicate, which has given our family hope.” The video, which was streamed on TikTok before the platform pulled it, appeared to show Hilton covered in blood, with visible cuts and holding what appeared to be a knife. In the video, viewers pleaded with him and asked for his phone number so they could alert authorities. Video from Hilton’s neighborhood taken by NBC South Florida showed multiple sheriff’s patrol vehicles and a street shuttered by yellow tape. Ring camera video from Hilton’s neighbor, which was obtained by NBC News, shows police descending onto Hilton’s Miami-area property. Dante Rusciolelli, the CEO of the talent management firm that represents Hilton, Golden Artists Entertainment, said in a statement Wednesday that they “do not have any additional confirmed information to share regarding Perez Hilton’s condition.” “Our focus remains on Perez’s health, recovery, and the privacy of both him and his family during this incredibly difficult time,” he said. “We are grateful for the outpouring of concern and support from fans, friends, and members of the media. We respectfully ask that everyone continue to honor his privacy while he receives the care he needs.” Hilton, 48, made a name in the early 2000s publicizing and sometimes belittling celebrities who made public gaffes or otherwise found themselves in trouble with the law. In 2010, he said he would stop bullying people on his website as part of his effort to discourage bullying among teenagers. “I really want to be part of the solution and not part of the problem,” he told Ellen DeGeneres on her show “Ellen.” Hilton, whose real name is Mario Lavandeira, is a single father with three children, all under the age of 14 and born via surrogacy. In a June 17 video on Instagram, he announced that his family was moving back to Miami after having lived in Las Vegas for 3 ½ years. “God told me to move to Miami,” he said in the video, in which he also discussed a recent hospital stay . In a follow-up video, Hilton and the children expressed excitement about the move. “Manifesting abundance, manifesting just family, peace, good times,” Hilton said. “Manifesting health, good health — that’s what’s most important.” In addition to his website, Hilton has expanded his online presence with “The Perez Hilton Podcast with Chris Booker,” on which the two parse the latest celebrity news and gossip. In a statement posted Wednesday to Instagram, Booker said he had briefly spoken to Hilton’s family and that the pair’s show is “all TBD at the moment as our collective focus is on his health.” “He is very loved. I can only hope that he feels it,” Booker said. “Heal up friend.” If you or someone you know is in crisis, call or text 988 or go to 988lifeline.org to reach the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline or visit SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources. Share Add to Google Emilie Dorn Emilie Dorn is an NBC News assignment editor. Dennis Romero Dennis Romero is a breaking news reporter for NBC News Digital. Matt Lavietes I’m a reporter on NBC News’ breaking news team, covering crime, extreme weather, pop culture and more. I recently covered Hurricane Milton, which devastated the Tampa, Florida, metropolitan area, and the student-led protests at Columbia University. Kaila Nichols contributed . About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC