Pinterest (PINS) Q2 2026 earnings report Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech Pinterest shares fall on lukewarm sales guidance Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 4:18 PM EDT Updated 7 Min Ago Jonathan Vanian @in/jonathan-vanian-b704432/ WATCH LIVE Key Points Pinterest reported better-than-expected earnings and revenue for the second quarter. However, its forecast for the current period was only in line with estimates. During an earnings call, CEO Bill Ready also discussed Pinterest's use of freely available, so-called open-weight artificial intelligence models, a topic of rising interest in corporate board rooms as companies increasingly focus on AI's high costs. In this article PINS Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 0:59 00:59 Pinterest shares fall more than 7% on revenue guidance Closing Bell: Overtime Pinterest shares fell 7% in extended trading on Tuesday after the company reported better-than-expected earnings and revenue but issued lukewarm sales guidance. Here's how the company did, compared to analysts' consensus estimates from LSEG: Earnings per share : 43 cents adjusted vs. 36 cents expected Revenue : $1.18 billion vs. $1.15 billion expected Sales rose 18% from $998.2 million a year earlier, while the company's net loss for the period was $47 million, a loss of 8 cents per share, Pinterest said in a statement. The social media company posted net income of $38.76 million, or 6 cents per share, a year ago. "Our Q2 results reflect the scale and strength of our platform," Pinterest CEO Bill Ready said in the release. Revenue this quarter should come in between $1.19 billion and $1.21 billion. The midpoint of $1.2 billion was in line with analyst expectations. The guidance "assumes a modest headwind from foreign exchange based on current spot rates," Pinterest said. Pinterest finance chief Julia Donnelly told analysts during an earnings call that the World Cup ending and Amazon 's Prime Day moving to the second quarter impacted brand spending and thus third-quarter guidance. "The shift of Prime Day from Q3 last year into Q2 this year resulted in an approximately half-point benefit to Q2 and will represent a roughly half-point headwind to Q3 as multiple brands and retailers increase their advertising spend around that moment," Donnelly said. "Lastly, in Q2, we saw a nearly one-point benefit from World Cup-related spend that will not repeat in Q3." Adjusted earnings for the quarter of $311 million, topped analyst projections of $270 million, according to StreetAccount. The company's global monthly active users, or MAUs, jumped 11% year-over-year to 640 million, beating estimates of 635 million. Global average revenue per user, or ARPU, was $1.86, ahead of projections. During the earnings call, Ready also discussed Pinterest's use of freely available, so-called open-weight artificial intelligence models , a topic of rising interest in corporate board rooms as companies increasingly focus on AI's high costs . "At this point, any CEO that's not taking advantage of open source models is almost certainly wasting a lot of their shareholders' money," Ready said. "And especially that's true now that you have hyperscalers making it really easy to take advantage of that open source in their their secure environment, so that you can leverage the open source in your own cloud environment, so that it's safe, it's secure." As Pinterest continues using a mixture of both proprietary and open-weight AI models, Donnelly explained to analysts how the company manages AI-related costs using "model routing infrastructure." This lets Pinterest use "higher-cost models for complex work while using lighter, lower-cost options for routine tasks," she said. Still, Donnelly noted that "As AI adoption continues to grow, we expect both AI-related compute and token spend to grow over time." "We see that these investments are ROI positive, and that investment growth is planned and included in our outlook that we've provided," Donnelly said. Pinterest stock chart. Read more CNBC tech news SpaceX revenue jumps 92% and AI costs soar in first earnings report since IPO NJ files antitrust suit against Amazon, alleging it unlawfully wielded power over delivery contractors Palantir stock skyrockets on 'otherworldly' commercial revenue — here's what's driving the demand How the 'Baby iPhone' and an Apple supplier leak explain China's recent supply chain moves WATCH : Why Pinterest CEO Bill Ready made his toughest call — and why it paid off . watch now VIDEO 40:11 40:11 How an early business lesson shaped Pinterest CEO Bill Ready’s toughest call Executive Decisions with Steve Sedgwick Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by