Iran anthem protest: Female footballers ‘proud’ to become Australian | Football News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up Navigation menu US-Israel war on Iran Strait of Hormuz What is Iran’s Pickaxe Mountain? Why have strikes resumed? Bodies of Evidence Sport | Football Iran anthem protest: Female footballers ‘proud’ to become Australian Fatemeh Pasandideh and Atefeh Ramezanisadeh, who refused to sing Iran anthem at AFC Cup, now granted Australian citizenship. Listen (2 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google Iranian footballers during the national anthem of Iran prior to the 2026 AFC Women's Asian Cup match against Philippines in March [Dave Hunt/EPA] By AFP Published On 6 Aug 2026 6 Aug 2026 Two former Iranian female footballers say they are “proud” to have been granted Australian citizenship after being branded traitors at home for refusing to sing the national anthem before a game. Fatemeh Pasandideh and Atefeh Ramezanisadeh, who were granted Australian citizenship at a ceremony on Wednesday overseen by Minister for Home Affairs Tony Burke, were members of a group of seven from Iran’s delegation who asked for protection from the host country following the high-profile protest during the Women’s Asian Cup in March. Recommended Stories list of 4 items list 1 of 4 FIFA pledges to defend Infantino after World Cup rights plan collapses list 2 of 4 UEFA’s threatened legal action against Infantino and FIFA: What we know list 3 of 4 Ex-Arsenal boss Wenger was ‘not aware’ of Infantino’s FIFA plan list 4 of 4 UEFA confirms legal letter served to FIFA after Infantino’s World Cup plan end of list With their demands for protection an embarrassment for Iran’s leaders but lauded by United States President Donald Trump, five of them later changed their minds and returned home. “Yesterday was a truly special and unforgettable day for me. I feel proud and deeply grateful to become an Australian citizen,” Ramezanisadeh said in a statement. “After everything we’ve been through and all the challenges we faced, this moment means more than words can express,” Pasandideh said. A week after seeking asylum, the pair were pictured smiling and training with Australian club Brisbane Roar, which on Wednesday congratulated them. “What they have been through since February is more than most people deal with in a lifetime,” a spokesperson for the club said. “To see them arrive at this point is something everyone here at Brisbane Roar is glad to have had a small part in,” they added. “Queensland is their home now. If they ever want to pull on a training top and come back out with us, the door will always stay open.” Advertisement The plight of the rest of the team remains unclear since their return to Iran. Reporters of the AFP news agency saw them cross into their homeland from Turkiye on a bus wearing the national team tracksuits and with their hair covered. Soon after, Iranian Parliament Speaker Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf said on X that the players and their support team were “children of the homeland and the people of Iran embrace them”. By returning, they had “disappointed the enemies [of Iran] and did not surrender to deception and intimidation by anti-Iran elements”, he added. Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network