Two police officers investigated over handling of sex offender who murdered two women - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions London Police officers investigated over handling of sex offender who murdered two women Image source, Met Police Image caption, Levy was found guilty of murdering Sheryl Wilkins (l), 39, and Carmenza Valencia-Trujillo, 53 By Cachella Smith and James Kelly Published 8 August 2026, 00:56 BST Updated 1 hour ago Two Metropolitan Police officers are being investigated by a watchdog over alleged failures in their handling of a serial sex offender who murdered two women. Simon Levy, 40, was on bail and being monitored by police when he committed a violent rape in January 2025, and killed Carmenza Valencia-Trujillo, 53, in March of that year and Sheryl Wilkins, 39, five months later. The Independent Office of Police Conduct (IOPC) said a police constable was under a gross misconduct investigation and a detective sergeant a misconduct investigation relating to the management of Levy. The Met, British Transport Police, and the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) have admitted to significant shortcomings. How police let a registered sex offender murder and attack women Published 13 hours ago Serial sex offender guilty of double murder and rape Published 14 hours ago Levy, from Tottenham, north London, was found guilty at the Old Bailey on Friday of two counts of murder, two counts of rape, grievous bodily harm with intent, and non-fatal suffocation. He was remanded into custody ahead of sentencing on 12 August. The IOPC later confirmed its investigation began in January following a voluntary conduct referral from the Metropolitan Police and remains ongoing. It added that issuing misconduct or gross misconduct notices does not necessarily mean disciplinary proceedings will follow. The watchdog is examining the management of Levy over a four-year period, from his first conviction in September 2021 on sexual assault charges up to his arrest in September 2025. Levy had been released from prison on licence in February 2023 and was briefly returned to prison in May 2024 after being accused of rape and breaching his licence conditions but was not charged. On Friday, he was convicted at the Old Bailey of two murders, rape and other charges including grievous bodily harm with intent, and non-fatal suffocation against the surviving woman. The jury, which was given a majority direction in the trial, found him guilty on all counts. During his trial jurors heard Levy had a string of convictions for attacking women dating back to July 2018, including one carried out against a prison officer in 2022. An IOPC spokesperson said: "We are examining whether action could or should have been taken to prevent his reoffending, and if all officers involved in his management followed policies, procedures, and training. "We are also assessing whether any learning, whether individual, force-wide, or nationally, or other changes should be implemented in light of the events under investigation." Figure caption, Watch footage from a Levy sexual assault victim that was passed to police Speaking outside court on Friday, Det Ch Insp Neil John, who led the investigation, said Trujillo and Wilkins were "much-loved women" and praised their families for demonstrating "incredible dignity and remarkable resolve". John also praised the surviving victim for her "commendable bravery" in presenting "vital evidence" in court before appealing directly for any further victims to come forward. "Although we are proud of the work that has gone into securing this verdict, we remain relentless in pursuing offenders who perpetrate violence against women and girls and are appealing to anyone who is yet to report offences relating to Levy to come forward," he added. Assistant Chief Constable Charlie Doyle of British Transport Police also encouraged any potential survivors to step forward. Image source, PA Image caption, Det Ch Insp Neil John speaking outside the Old Bailey alongside family of the victims Met Deputy Assistant Commissioner Kevin Southworth has acknowledged that failures to remand Levy in custody during court hearings in May and June 2025 left him free to commit further offences. BTP confirmed two officers have been moved to other roles due to "incompetence" in handling investigations into Levy's transport assaults. Crime and policing minister Sarah Jones said the situation "raises serious questions". "The fact that Levy was able to inflict such devastating harm after being freed by police and the courts is deeply concerning." Lisa Ramsarran, chief crown prosecutor for the CPS, said: "Our actions fell short of the standards that victims, families and the public are entitled to expect. "In particular, there were points where we could and should have taken a more robust approach to representations about bail, based on the information available." Victims' Commissioner for London Andrea Simons called for a "multi-agency review" over the "litany of failures to manage such a prolific offender". She told BBC Breakfast that public services "have to get better at recognising patterns of offending" before attackers become "emboldened". She continued: "There was a lack of restrictions that could have been placed on him and a failure to monitor him appropriately - so all of those things, I think, we need answers to now." Lisa Squire, whose daughter Libby was murdered by a man who had previously committed a string of sex crimes , told the BBC that a "catalogue of disasters" had led to Levy's murders. She told BBC Radio 4's Today programme "the patterns were there, he was flying those red flags", and said there were "precursor offences" for which he could have stopped by police. "At the moment, the message going out, in my opinion, is that women's safety is not important," she continued. Zoë Billingham, a former independent police inspector who pushed for reforms on how violence against women in girls is policed, said that "too often in cases like this the dots aren't being joined up". She added: "It's not one or two missed opportunities that could have brought him to justice, that could have had him locked up and behind bars and no longer a threat to women and girls. It was an extraordinary succession." More on this story Woman feared she would die in attack, court hears Published 30 June Woman tells jury of rape and suffocation Published 2 July Man charged with two murders misses court hearing Published 25 November 2025 Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook , external , X , external and Instagram , external . Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk , external Related topics Walworth London Tottenham London violence Metropolitan Police Service From other local news sites ‘I've lost a hell of a lot’ - fire DESTROYS Harold Hill garden and damages home External Romford Recorder Strike action planned for famous Greenwich attraction company next week External News Shopper Can a £12 changing robe rival DryRobe? My verdict after wild swimming External London Evening Standard Incredible images revive London's lost river that flows from Hampstead Heath External Hampstead and Highgate Express Hackney church to mark 200 years with fresh chapter after £192k grant External Hackney Gazette 8,000 homes planned for new south London neighbourhood External London Evening Standard Information about BBC links to other news sites The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:28 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update. 00:00:28, play video 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update 1:17 The tech that could map every tree on earth. 00:01:17, play video The tech that could map every tree on earth 0:59 Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 00:00:59, play video Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 1:07 Riding England's longest zip wire. 00:01:07, play video Riding England's longest zip wire 1:21 How many different cubes can you make? 00:01:21, play video How many different cubes can you make? 2:01 Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape. 00:02:01, play video Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape 1:02 Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter. 00:01:02, play video Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter 1:17 What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:17, play video What we know about the Thailand school shooting 0:48 Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 00:00:48, play video Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 0:53 Are you hung up on hangers? 00:00:53, play video Are you hung up on hangers? 0:52 Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 00:00:52, play video Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 0:31 The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 00:00:31, play video The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 0:43 Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan. 00:00:43, play video Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan 0:33 Moment raiders drive car into service station. 00:00:33, play video Moment raiders drive car into service station 1:11 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 00:01:11, play video 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 0:39 How much rain will end the drought? 00:00:39, play video How much rain will end the drought? 0:24 Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol. 00:00:24, play video Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol 1:43 Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment. 00:01:43, play video Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment 0:44 Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup. 00:00:44, play video Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup 1:00 What is 'food noise'? 00:01:00, play video What is 'food noise'? Top stories Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands Published 3 hours ago Infantino denies claims Uefa paid off alleged 'lover' Published 11 hours ago The phone book that led us to Assad's spy chief in hiding Published 10 hours ago More to explore I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock Pokémon hobby takes brothers to world championships 'We had to flee with just my daughter's clothes and dolls' Obesity rates have doubled in England since 1993 - what's going on? The 101-year-old who created a dolls' house museum with her childhood toys How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC With great power comes great responsibility She's not a bad girl anymore, wink wink wink wink Can a test tell you what's living inside your gut? How much discipline is too much in school? Most read 1 I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock 2 Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands 3 He's been frozen on Everest for 30 years, now 'Green Boots' may finally be coming home 4 Hunter Biden tells BBC his pardon was 'not good' for America or his father's legacy 5 Woman attacked by bed bugs during Travelodge stay 6 Digital cameras and wired earphones are back - and 'a bit more real' 7 Spain imposes border controls against Italy as row over Ceuta migrant influx intensifies 8 Airport disruption a 'shambles' as flights restart 9 How a former GB Olympian curbed his porn problem - and the signs and steps to recovery 10 The phone book that led us to Assad's spy chief in hiding BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.