Pfizer (PFE) earnings Q2 2026 Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Health and Science Pfizer tops estimates, hikes low end of revenue guidance on strength of Eliquis, other drugs Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 7:13 AM EDT Updated 5 Hours Ago Annika Kim Constantino @annikakimc WATCH LIVE Key Points Pfizer reported second-quarter results that topped estimates and hiked the low end of its revenue outlook, citing an expected $1.5 billion bump in sales from its non-Covid products. The company said it revised its full-year revenue expectation for its Covid products – the vaccine and antiviral pill Paxlovid – to $4 billion, down from around $5 billion previously. Pfizer also announced additional savings of $2.5 billion from two separate cost-cutting programs, which will be achieved starting in 2027 and through 2029. Pfizer Inc. signage on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York, US, on Wednesday, March 4, 2026. Michael Nagle | Bloomberg | Getty Images Pfizer on Tuesday reported second-quarter results that topped estimates and hiked the low end of its revenue outlook, citing an expected $1.5 billion bump in sales from its non-Covid products. The company is now expecting full-year revenue to total $60.5 billion to $62.5 billion, which compares with a previous outlook of $59.5 billion to $62.5 billion. That sales range would still be roughly flat or down slightly compared with 2025 revenue of $62.6 billion. Pfizer said it cut its full-year revenue expectation for its Covid products – the vaccine Comirnaty and antiviral pill Paxlovid – to $4 billion, down from around $5 billion previously. "Low COVID-19 incidence could continue to limit Paxlovid utilization," Pfizer's incoming interim CFO, Cecile Guegan, said during the company's second-quarter earnings call. "Our plan also assumes the majority of Comirnaty sales will occur toward year-end, consistent with the vaccination season." The pharmaceutical giant reiterated its full-year adjusted profit outlook of between $2.80 and $3 per share. Pfizer also announced additional savings of $2.5 billion from two separate cost-cutting programs, which will be achieved starting in 2027 and through 2029. "With our strong performance through the first half of the year and our ongoing productivity enhancement discipline, we remain confident in our business," Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla said on the call. Here's what the company reported for the second quarter compared with what Wall Street was expecting, based on a survey of analysts by LSEG: Earnings per share: 77 cents adjusted vs. 68 cents expected Revenue: $15.03 billion vs. $14.41 billion expected Pfizer reported revenue of $15.03 billion for the first quarter, up 3% from the same period a year ago. Sales increases for key products, including its blood thinner Eliquis and targeted cancer drug Padcev, helped to counteract struggles in its Covid business. Eliquis in particular blew past estimates for the quarter, raking in $2.43 billion in sales, up 19%. Analysts were expecting revenue of $2.08 billion, according to StreetAccount. Recently launched and acquired products also delivered $3.2 billion in revenue during the quarter, Guegan said during the call. "Our commercial performance has also helped mitigate the impact of currently low Covid infection levels," she said. The company booked a net loss of $248 million, or 4 cents per share, for the period. That compares with net income of $2.91 billion, or 51 cents per share, during the second quarter of 2025. The quarterly loss largely reflected a $4.3 billion noncash impairment charge after Pfizer lowered its revenue expectations for certain products, primarily following disappointing late-stage trial results for its drug sigvotatug vedotin in previously treated non-small-cell lung cancer. The charge also reflected the removal of revenue projections for its sickle cell disease drug Oxbryta after recent discussions with the Food and Drug Administration. Pfizer pulled that product from the market in 2024. Excluding certain items, including restructuring charges and costs associated with intangible assets, Pfizer posted earnings per share of 77 cents for the quarter. The company also announced the second phase of a multiyear initiative to slash costs , which targets around $1.5 billion in savings through 2029. That phase focuses on what the company called product portfolio enhancements, network structure changes and additional operational efficiencies. The first part of that effort is on track to deliver $1.5 billion in savings by the end of 2027. Pfizer announced an additional $1 billion in savings from a separate cost-cutting program, which will be achieved from 2027 to 2029. That adds to the previously announced $5.7 billion in cost savings the company will achieve through the program by the end of the year. The pharmaceutical giant is looking to longer-term investments in its pipeline, including its recent $10 billion acquisition of the obesity biotech Metsera , to counter waning Covid product sales and declines from older drugs. Investors are focused on several crucial data releases from Pfizer this year, including data on a combination regimen that includes its GLP-1 injection and an amylin asset. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by