Covent Garden victims stabbed in the back with pair of scissors, court hears | UK news | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland Police cordoned off the area in London’s West End on Wednesday after the attack. Photograph: Tayfun Salcı/ZUMA Press Wire/Shutterstock View image in fullscreen Police cordoned off the area in London’s West End on Wednesday after the attack. Photograph: Tayfun Salcı/ZUMA Press Wire/Shutterstock UK news Covent Garden victims stabbed in the back with pair of scissors, court hears Stella Gollovena, 47, has been charged with four counts of wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm Press Association Thu 6 Aug 2026 14.06 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 15.42 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google A woman has appeared in court accused of stabbing four men in the back with a pair of scissors in one of London’s busiest tourist districts. Stella Gollovena, 47, is accused of attacking Patrick De Barr, Thomas Harding, Adrian Lovett and Mantas Jankus during the attack in Covent Garden on Wednesday lunchtime. She has been charged with four counts of wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm and one count of possession of an offensive weapon, a pair of scissors, in a public place. Gollovena, of no fixed address, faced the five criminal charges for the first time in a hearing at Highbury Corner magistrates court on Thursday afternoon. The hearing was told police were flagged down in Endell Street, a popular tourist area filled with bars, theatres and restaurants, at about 12.25pm by one of the injured victims. He and a second man reported being stabbed, before the suspect was chased and Tasered. The court heard police took statements from four men who were treated in hospital for stab wounds to their backs, while a fifth person said at the scene that they had also been stabbed but did not want to give a statement to police. It is alleged Gollovena had a pair of scissors – also described as a “pair of shears” – on her when she was arrested. The deputy chief magistrate, Tan Ikram, remanded Gollovena in custody until the next hearing at Snaresbrook crown court on 3 September. Gollovena spoke to confirm her identity but did not enter any pleas to the charges. An air ambulance helicopter landed in a packed Trafalgar Square on Wednesday afternoon after the stabbings and London ambulance service said it had “treated four patients at the scene and took them all to a major trauma centre as a priority by road”. The Met said the four men – aged 34, 39, 42 and 56 – had stab wounds but had since been discharged from hospital as their injuries were not deemed life-threatening or life-changing. Explore more on these topics UK news news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)