Farmer who killed lodger and hid body in concrete in South Yorkshire jailed for life | South Yorkshire | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland DCI Andy Knowles reads a statement outside Sheffield crown court alongside family members of Richard Dyson. Photograph: Annabel Lee-Ellis/PA View image in fullscreen DCI Andy Knowles reads a statement outside Sheffield crown court alongside family members of Richard Dyson. Photograph: Annabel Lee-Ellis/PA South Yorkshire Farmer who killed lodger and hid body in concrete in South Yorkshire jailed for life Christopher Wright, 73, who shot Richard Dyson and dismembered his remains, given 35-year minimum term Raphael Boyd Thu 6 Aug 2026 10.33 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 11.02 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google A man who killed his lodger and concealed his dismembered body in a barrel filled with concrete for more than five years has been jailed for a minimum of 35 years. Christopher Wright, a 73-year-old farmer from South Yorkshire, was convicted in July in Sheffield crown court of murdering Richard Dyson, 55, in 2019. Dyson had been living in his car on Wright’s farm in Hoyland and had been doing jobs for the then 67-year-old when the pair had a falling out. Wright, an antique firearms collector who was described as a “weapons fanatic” during his trial, suspected Dyson of stealing some of his prized possessions and selling them. The court heard that when Wright confronted Dyson with his suspicions in November 2019 an argument broke out that ended with Dyson being shot in the chest and arm with a shotgun, killing him. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Every weekday Sign up to First Edition Our morning email breaks down the key stories of the day, telling you what’s happening and why it matters Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion View image in fullscreen Christopher Wright has been jailed for a minimum of 35 years. Photograph: South Yorkshire Police/PA Wright, a former butcher, dismembered Dyson’s body over the course of several days, then placed the remains in a barrel which he filled with concrete. He then placed the barrel in a trailer and asked an unsuspecting neighbour to keep the vehicle on their property. Wright was aided in covering up his crime by Karl Schwalbe, a lifelong friend who received a three-year sentence for conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. Dyson’s disappearance was initially treated as a missing person inquiry and his remains went undiscovered for more than five and a half years. While South Yorkshire police were aware that he had been on Wright’s land in the days leading up to his disappearance, they could not find evidence implicating the farmer, who denied any knowledge of Dyson’s whereabouts. Dyson remained missing until July 2025 when police, driven by new evidence that showed Wright had contacted a local farmer about storing a vehicle on his property in the days after Dyson disappeared, searched the farm and found a barrel containing concrete and human remains, which were later identified as Dyson’s. Extreme rightwing referrals to Prevent rise 20% amid record anti-terror reporting Read more Speaking after sentencing him on Thursday, Mr Justice Cotter told Wright he would probably die in prison and said the killer’s experience as a butcher made him “skilled enough to do such a terrible thing, something few ordinary people would have the stomach for”. Dyson’s daughter Bethany Dainty, who filed a missing person report in the days after her father was murdered, read a victim impact statement in court detailing how hard it had been not knowing her father’s fate: “I couldn’t grieve because I did not know the truth.” She added: “While I cried myself to sleep, while I begged for answers, while I prayed my dad would walk through the door again, someone already knew where he was. Someone watched me suffer for years and said nothing. That level of cruelty is impossible for me to understand.” After the sentencing, DCI Andy Knowles praised Dyson’s family for the strength they showed during a “long, complex and emotionally draining” investigation. Knowles said: “Wright and Schwalbe knew what happened to Richard and even with the evidence against them, they continued to deny accountability, making Richard’s family endure a trial, listen to harrowing evidence and distressing testimonies. The strength and dignity in confronting each moment of this process has been nothing short of extraordinary.” Explore more on these topics South Yorkshire Crime news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)