Moreno says Max Miller should seek 'serious psychological help' Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Politics & Policy GOP Sen. Moreno says ex-son-in-law Max Miller shouldn't serve in House, needs 'serious psychological help' Published Sun, Aug 2 2026 3:13 PM EDT Garrett Downs @in/garrettmdowns/ @_garrettdowns WATCH LIVE Key Points Republican Sen. Bernie Moreno of Ohio said his former son-in-law, Rep. Max Miller, should not serve in the House of Representatives and "needs serious psychological help." The senator's daughter, Emily Moreno, accused Miller of domestic abuse against her and their daughter. Miller, R-Ohio, who denies the allegations against him, is running for reelection in a solidly red seat, and has only days to withdraw if the Republicans want to replace him. Max Miller, US Republican Representative candidate for Ohio, takes the stage during a 'Save America' rally in Vandalia, Ohio, US, on Monday, Nov. 7, 2022. Joshua A Pickel | Bloomberg | Getty Images Republican Sen. Bernie Moreno of Ohio said his former son-in-law, Rep. Max Miller , should not serve in the House of Representatives and "needs serious psychological help" after the senator's daughter accused the congressman of domestic abuse . "If there are any basic standards of character required to hold elected office, Max Miller fails them. He should not serve in the House of Representatives," Moreno, who was elected to the Senate in 2024, said in a statement posted to X on Sunday. "I believe Max Miller needs to seek professional help to end the clear pattern of abuse he has left in his wake." Moreno's statement comes as Miller, R-Ohio, who denies the allegations against him, runs for reelection in a solidly red district. In a video statement Sunday, Miller said he will not back out of his reelection bid as the allegations threaten to engulf his campaign and cost the GOP a seat. Emily Moreno has accused Miller, her ex-husband, of assault during their marriage. She has claimed he threw hot water on her, held a gun to her head and broke their daughter's collarbone. Miller has said the claims are not true and has accused his ex-wife of having mental health challenges. "Every one of these allegations traces back to a single source, my former wife," Miller said in the statement, where he countered her claims. "Not one of these allegations has ever been substantiated by any court or any agency." Miller also released a set of files that he said would exonerate him. Emily Moreno's spokesperson, Stefan Mychajliw, said in a statement following the video, that it is "shameful that Max Miller decided to go on a bizarre and lie-filled rant about his ex-wife to desperately try to save his political career." Ohio Republican Senator-elect Bernie Moreno at the CNBC CFO Council Summit 2024 in Washington, D.C. Brian Stukes | CNBC "There is a documented trove of evidence that Miller has a history of violent and dangerous behavior and no amount of victim shaming will change that," Mychajliw said. "Miller can lie and spin on X, but he cannot do so under oath in a court of law. We are confident that justice will prevail in court." Miller's election in Ohio is critical for the 2026 midterms, which will determine the balance of power in the House and Senate for the remainder of President Donald Trump's term. Democrats are favored in the contest, holding a 6.4% point advantage in the RealClearPolitics generic ballot average. And while Miller's seat was not seen as a likely flip for Democrats, a cascading scandal could put the seat in play. Brian Poindexter, the Democratic challenger in the district, said Sunday that no one "credibly accused of holding a gun to his wife's head and breaking their two-year-old daughter's collarbone belongs in the halls of power." Read more CNBC politics and policy coverage Canada unveils retaliatory tariffs on about $20B of U.S. goods Trump targets Iran's trade lifelines — here are the countries most exposed Mark Walter's TWG Global hires Goldman vet Markowitz as top lawyer amid probe Trump oil and gas stocks gained up to $15.5 million, Democrats say Trump admin unveils anti-Iran global sanctions plan, signals China not exempt Sen. Moreno's statement on Sunday was one of the first he's made since the new details about the allegations against Miller were blown into public view. Republicans face a pressing Aug. 5 deadline , the last day that Miller can withdraw in time for a replacement to be named. "As he has admitted privately, Max Miller needs serious psychological help," the senator said. "He is a danger to my daughter, and I hold my breath every minute he has custody of my granddaughter." Miller, in his video statement, made clear he has no intention of withdrawing. "I'm not getting out of this race, and I'm winning in November," Miller said. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by