UBS-CS Deal Gets Fed Seal of Approval in the US UBS-CS Deal Gets Fed Seal of Approval in the US Redaktion The acquisition of Credit Suisse’s subsidiaries in the US by UBS has been approved by the Federal Reserve. 2023-04-17 --> Home People Fintech Guest Essays Interviews Middle East Media Library Advertorials Newsletter About Search finews.ch finews.asia Wednesday, 2 September 2026 Wednesday, 2 September 2026 Home News Fintech Middle East SIX CEO: «We Are Assessing Whether We Should Become More Active in Private Equity» Former HSBC Trio Launches Zurich Wealth Management Boutique LGT Private Banking Names New Head Multi-Asset Strategies PM Europe People Opinions Interviews Guest Essays Media Library SIX CEO: «We Are Assessing Whether We Should Become More Active in Private Equity» China Is Building the University of the Future – What About Switzerland? «Asia Is No Longer Just a Diversification Play» About Newsletter UBS-CS Deal Gets Fed Seal of Approval in the US The acquisition of Credit Suisse’s subsidiaries in the US by UBS has been approved by the Federal Reserve. (Image: Unsplash) More articles How Credit Suisse's Emergency Rescue is Viewed From Abroad Monday, 17 April 2023 06:27 Written by: Deviana Chuo UBS-CS Deal Gets Fed Seal of Approval in the US The Federal Reserve's board of governors has approved UBS's acquisition of Credit Suisse’s subsidiaries, according to a statement . «The board also has determined to permit UBS to maintain two US intermediate holding companies for a period of one year after the date that UBS acquires control of [Credit Suisse Holdings (USA), Inc.],» the statement said. «After one year, UBS must have only one US intermediate holding company or receive additional approval for an alternative organizational structure.» Implementation Plans UBS has also committed to providing the Fed with an implementation plan for combining the two Swiss bank’s businesses and operations in the country within three months of the consummation of the merger. This includes more stringent requirements such as tightened liquidity standards due to the increased size of the bank. Beginning in the first quarter, UBS will provide at least quarterly updates on the plan to the staff of the board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. In March, UBS agreed to acquire 167-year old Credit Suisse for 3 billion Swiss francs ($3.3 billion) in a Swiss-brokered rescue deal. More on this topic UBS Kids Cup: Der lange Weg zur Medaille J. Safra Sarasin verliert Investment-Chef an Basler Vermögensverwalter WAK-Entscheid: So sind die Reaktionen EFG startet in Bern mit zwei UBS-Bankern Fall Usmanow: Schweiz verbittet sich «Fishing Expedition» aus Deutschland Latest News SIX CEO: «We Are Assessing Whether We Should Become More Active in Private Equity» Former HSBC Trio Launches Zurich Wealth Management Boutique LGT Private Banking Names New Head Multi-Asset Strategies PM Europe Luxembourg Fund Law Firm Establishes Presence in Zurich Partners Group Reshuffles Top Management Newsletter Subscription Get the latest stories as they happen: Free e-mail alerts from finews.com. Most Popular 1 Zurich Insurance Nabs Barclays London Executive to Head Group Treasury 2 Tanja Wegmann: «I Like Rolex Because It Does Not Have to Be Loud» 3 Geneva Wealth Asset Manager Nabs New Partner from UBP 4 Pictet Profit Jumps as Client Assets Hit Record High 5 Usmanov Case: Zurich Prosecutors Refuse Germany a Trawl of Swiss Banks 6 J. Safra Sarasin Names New Head Fund Products 7 Avaloq's Dubai Push Takes Shape 8 Barclays Chief Strategist: «Without AI, the Global Economy Would Be Significantly Weaker» People | Careers, Moves, Hires and Changes Former HSBC Trio Launches Zurich Wealth Management Boutique Tuesday, 1 September 2026 11:44 | Sarah Praetorius LGT Private Banking Names New Head Multi-Asset Strategies PM Europe Tuesday, 1 September 2026 10:44 J. Safra Sarasin Names New Head Fund Products Friday, 28 August 2026 14:35 + More articles Media Library | Podcasts and Videos BIL Opens a New Chapter in Switzerland Thursday, 16 April 2026 10:38 Rémy Savoya: «Financing Companies Is in Our DNA» Friday, 19 December 2025 03:39 Chris Künzle: «This is the New Benchmark for Swiss Private Banks» Saturday, 13 December 2025 15:55 Middle East Banking and Innovation Summit (MEBIS): Experts' Statements Thursday, 18 September 2025 12:45 + More articles Fintech | Innovative financial technologies Avaloq's Dubai Push Takes Shape Friday, 28 August 2026 11:02 Leonteq: Major Shareholder Frey Calls for 100 Million Franc Share Buyback Tuesday, 25 August 2026 08:25 Finpension Continues to Grow Rapidly Friday, 7 August 2026 08:51 Wefox Appoints New Country Head for Switzerland Wednesday, 5 August 2026 09:15 + More articles More on this topic UBS Capital: Key Committee Rebuffs Swiss Finance Minister Usmanov Case: Zurich Prosecutors Refuse Germany a Trawl of Swiss Banks J. Safra Sarasin Names New Head Fund Products Geneva Wealth Asset Manager Nabs New Partner from UBP MBaer Merchant Bank: What Triggered US Authorities? Privacy Policy finews.com finews.ch finews.asia Partner: News People Fintech Middle East Interviews Guest Essays Media Library Backstage Services Newsletter Search Advertorials About Privacy Policy Follow us mode_comment close Chatbot keyboard_arrow_down Hello How can I help you? sentiment_satisfied attach_file close arrow_upward