Ken Griffin's Citadel posts best month in years after scooping up Situational Awareness stocks Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Markets Ken Griffin's Citadel posts best month in years after scooping up Situational Awareness stocks Published Wed, Aug 5 2026 7:11 AM EDT Updated 6 Hours Ago Yun Li @YunLi626 WATCH LIVE Key Points Citadel's flagship multistrategy Wellington fund, the firm's largest, returned 5.9% in July, marking its best monthly performance since 2022 and pushing 2026 gains to 12%, according to a person familiar with the firm's performance. The firm's tactical fund and equities fund both had their best month ever. The July gains came after Citadel acquired the bulk of the public stock portfolio formerly held by Situational Awareness late last month. In this article NBIS MU Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Ken Griffin, Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Citadel, speaks during the America Business Forum at Kaseya Center in Miami, Florida, U.S. Nov. 5, 2025. Marco Bello | Reuters Ken Griffin's Citadel posted strong gains across its major hedge funds in July, helped by a recovery in risk assets and a discounted purchase of assets from the collapse of Leopold Aschenbrenner's Situational Awareness hedge fund to end the month, according to a person familiar with the firm's performance. Citadel's flagship multistrategy Wellington fund, the firm's largest, returned 5.9% in July, marking its best monthly performance since 2022 and pushing 2026 gains to 12%, the person said. The tactical trading fund, which combines discretionary equity investing with quantitative strategies, gained 11.1% in July and is up 27% on the year. The equities fund advanced 14.2% last month, bringing the 2026 return to 27%. The tactical fund and equities fund both had their best month ever. The person asked not to be identified discussing confidential performance figures. The July gains came after Citadel acquired the bulk of the public stock portfolio formerly held by Situational Awareness late last month, following the hedge fund's rapid unraveling after steep losses triggered margin calls and forced asset sales. Citadel purchased many of the holdings at a significant discount, positioning the firm to benefit as markets rebounded into the month-end. Situational Awareness, founded by former OpenAI researcher Leopold Aschenbrenner, was forced to unwind many of its positions after a sharp reversal in artificial intelligence trades left it bleeding on both sides of its book. The firm had accumulated sizable stakes in AI infrastructure companies while betting against software stocks, a strategy that backfired as software shares rallied and AI hardware names slumped. Several of the fund's prime brokers worked to reduce positions in an orderly fashion as Situational Awareness sought to meet margin requirements. Citadel emerged as a significant buyer of the portfolio, taking advantage of one of the year's biggest forced liquidations. Stocks such as Nebius and Micron that Aschenbrenner's fund owned rebounded in the final days of July following a brutal month with many traders saying the fund's near collapse and rescue move by Citadel was a clearing event that caused short sellers to take profits. Citadel managed about $71 billion in assets as of July 1 and has often used periods of market dislocation to deploy capital into distressed or forced-selling situations. Citadel declined to comment. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by