US authorities say three killed in Prospect Hill, North Carolina shooting | Crime News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up News | Crime US authorities say three killed in Prospect Hill, North Carolina shooting North Carolina authorities confirm multiple fatalities and one injured in a mass shooting in Prospect Hill. Listen (1 min) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google [File: Jonathan Drake/Reuters] By Al Jazeera Staff Published On 5 Aug 2026 5 Aug 2026 Law enforcement in the US state of North Carolina has reported a fatal mass shooting in the city of Prospect Hill, with at least three people killed, including the suspect, and another injured. The North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation said in a press release on Wednesday that officers responded to a call just before 8am ET (12pm GMT). The names of the victims and the suspected shooter have not been released. NBC News reported that Sheriff Tony Durden told reporters that all of those involved are adults and part of the same family. Recommended Stories list of 3 items list 1 of 3 Russia kills 17 in ballistic missile attacks around Kyiv list 2 of 3 Sheikh Hasina says she will return to Bangladesh in December list 3 of 3 Brazil’s Flavio Bolsonaro names Alfredo Gaspar as running mate end of list “Deputies arriving on scene found multiple people who had been shot. One person was transported to Duke University Hospital with a gunshot wound, and there are multiple other fatalities,” the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation said. “SBI Crime scene investigators are on scene processing evidence and conducting interviews. There is NO THREAT to the general public.” Durden added that there is no evidence that the family had previously reached out to the sheriff’s office. Further details about the incident are still emerging. Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network