Mitch McConnell announces discharge from rehabilitation center | Mitch McConnell | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Mitch McConnell is taken to a policy lunch on Capitol Hill in May. Photograph: Tom Brenner/Reuters View image in fullscreen Mitch McConnell is taken to a policy lunch on Capitol Hill in May. Photograph: Tom Brenner/Reuters Mitch McConnell Mitch McConnell announces discharge from rehabilitation center Republican, 84, absent from Senate after fall that led to hospital stay, says he will continue recovery at home US politics live – latest updates Shrai Popat in Washington Thu 6 Aug 2026 15.47 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 17.44 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google The Republican US senator Mitch McConnell has been discharged from a rehabilitation center following the fall that left him hospitalized, he announced on Thursday. McConnell, 84, whose weeks‑long absence from Capitol Hill fueled mounting speculation about his health , said he will continue his recovery at home. While the Senate is set to wrap up legislative business this week, before a five‑week recess, several agenda items remain – including a vote to confirm Todd Blanche as US attorney general. McConnell’s absence further narrows Republicans’ already tight path to approving Donald Trump’s former personal attorney as head of the Department of Justice. McConnell is one of the highest-profile figures in Congress , as a former Senate majority leader. He has been absent from the Senate and not seen in public since mid-June, although his office has released several photos of him. “On the advice of my doctors, I’ll maintain an intensive regimen of physical therapy from home during the state work period,” McConnell said in a Thursday statement. “And I’ll continue to engage with my staff and colleagues on important Senate business.” His 53‑day absence has drawn scrutiny from lawmakers in both parties. Last month, Kentucky’s Democratic governor, Andy Beshear, publicly urged McConnell to release more information about his health, writing: “Kentuckians have grown increasingly concerned about the current state of your health and wellbeing, and ability to hold office.” McConnell was admitted to hospital on 14 June. His office initially offered few details, saying only that he was “continuing to improve”. A month later, McConnell disclosed that a fall at his home and a “mild case of pneumonia” had prompted the hospitalization and his extended time away. In late July, his office said he still had not been cleared to return to work. Explore more on these topics Mitch McConnell US politics Republicans US Senate Washington DC news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)