US promises $1bn in security aid to Colombia as new rightwing president pledges drugs crackdown | Colombia | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Abelardo de la Espriella, Colombia’s new president, speaks in Cali after being sworn in. ‘The time has come to restore order, authority and freedom.’ Photograph: Jaime Saldarriaga/AFP/Getty Images View image in fullscreen Abelardo de la Espriella, Colombia’s new president, speaks in Cali after being sworn in. ‘The time has come to restore order, authority and freedom.’ Photograph: Jaime Saldarriaga/AFP/Getty Images Colombia US promises $1bn in security aid to Colombia as new rightwing president pledges drugs crackdown Trump ally Abelardo De La ‌Espriella vows to start ‘profound transformation’ of country’s destiny as he is sworn in Guardian staff and agencies Sat 8 Aug 2026 00.08 EDT Last modified on Sat 8 Aug 2026 23.19 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google The ​Trump administration plans to provide $1bn in security assistance to the ⁠government of Colombia’s new ​rightwing ‌president, the US state department announced, soon after Abelardo De La ‌Espriella was sworn in and used his inaugural speech to pledge a vigorous fight against drug trafficking, as well as austerity measures to restore confidence in the economy. De La Espriella, 48, won June’s runoff election with ⁠promises to crack down on armed groups, shrink ⁠the state by as much as 40% and ​revive the oil and gas sector. “I have come to close a long chapter of national resignation and, together with the people, embark on the most profound transformation ⁠of our destiny,” De La Espriella said at the Pichincha Battalion military base in Cali after being sworn in on Friday. “I send a firm message to the Colombian people: the time has come to restore order, authority and freedom,” said De La Espriella, who received the endorsement of Donald Trump before his runoff election. Colombia on the brink: ELN guerrilla group prepares for return to war Read more “Members of criminal gangs and narco-terrorist groups have two choices: submit to the ⁠rule of law or face the determined response of the Colombian state and its security forces,” the new president told assembled troops at the base during a 75-minute speech, adding the option of peace talks with armed groups had been “completely exhausted”. The US ⁠state department said in a statement on Friday: ⁠“As a cornerstone of this renewed partnership, the United States, working with Congress, ‌intends to announce $1 billion in assistance ​as part of a security package to support ⁠President de la Espriella’s ​Administration in ​achieving ​our shared goals.” De La Espriella’s ​election is part of a rightward shift rippling across Latin America . In Peru, Argentina, Chile, Ecuador, Bolivia and Panama, weak ‌economies and rising crime have reshaped voter priorities, allowing once-fringe ‌hard-right candidates to gain traction by promising crackdowns amid a global rise of rightwing nationalism. View image in fullscreen Abelardo de la Espriella (C) salutes during the military recognition ceremony as part of the presidential inauguration day in Cali, Colombia. Photograph: Leonardo Castañeda/Getty Images De La Espriella could push through some of his policies via decree, but analysts say many of his proposals will require backing from a divided congress and could ‌be watered down in negotiations. The new president vowed to “definitively eradicate the scourge of illicit crops”, saying he would use aerial herbicides that did not harm human health or the environment to destroy coca, the plant used to make cocaine. In one of his first acts as president, Colombia would join the Shield of the Americas program founded by Trump, he said. Before his inauguration, he held bilateral meetings with ​the king of Spain and the presidents of Argentina, Ecuador, Chile, Paraguay and Panama. Also attending was Gianni Infantino, the embattled head of Fifa, football’s world governing body, while the US sent a delegation headed by the acting attorney general, Todd Blanche. De La Espriella has blamed former president Gustavo Petro, who has not recognised the new president’s victory, for an expansion of armed groups, and narrowly defeated leftist Senator Ivan Cepeda – a Petro ally – in the runoff. Cepeda led a morning march on Friday in Barranquilla, where he told demonstrators that the country’s opposition would work to defend democracy and called for peaceful civil disobedience. With Reuters Explore more on these topics Colombia Trump administration Americas US foreign policy news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)