Powerlifting racism row: 'I feel unsafe' says Sonita Muluh - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Weightlifting 'I feel unsafe', says powerlifter over racism row Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Belgian champion Sonita Muluh is of Cameroonian descent Published 7 hours ago A powerlifter who alleged she was subjected to a racially motivated act that she says led to her disqualification from an event has said she "does not feel safe" when competing. Belgium's Sonita Muluh was attempting a record 334.5kg squat at the Powerlifting Championships in Lithuania in June when Ernestas Kusinas - a 'spotter' who helps to ensure the validity of an attempted lift - touched the weights with his knee. Muluh was disqualified and not allowed to reattempt the lift by judges, who ruled on a separate technical infringement. But police in Lithuania have launched a criminal investigation after Kusinas later wrote on Instagram: "I am racist, and ⁠I did it intentionally." A police spokesperson told Reuters the investigation will focus on the Instagram message and events at the championship, with a maximum penalty of two years in prison. Kusinas told Reuters his Instagram comment was written out of anger after he was accused of racism by an unidentified social media user, and was intended not as a statement but as a mockery of the accusation. He has been handed a lifetime ban by the Lithuanian Powerlifting Federation, and his social media accounts have since been switched to private. "It's shocking to wake up five weeks later and it's all over the internet that he did it on purpose because of the colour of my skin," Muluh told BBC Sport. "I feel unsafe and uneasy that this person is standing beside me with massive weight, with what can go wrong, with the amount of weight on your back. "I was lucky when I realised [it hit his knee] and I could stabilise it. Not everyone could. It was the heaviest ever squat for a female." A devastated Muluh initially refused to blame Kusinas for what she thought was a mistake. "He did not reach out afterwards to apologise, but he is not obliged to. I thought it was a human mistake, that cost me a lot on the day. "But there was no hatred [from me]. I didn't lash out; didn't curse at him. There was a video of it posted afterwards and I said: 'I hope he does not get hate.' I believed it was an honest mistake. "And then I find out five weeks later that he said this." Muluh, 29, also says she feels the sport's world governing body, the International Powerlifting Federation, "failed" her following the incident, and that swift action is only happening now as the story has grown. "I feel like the federation needs to do background checks. If you are going to put my life in someone else's hands, at least make sure that person is well equipped to be able to protect me or keep me from harm. "But they failed me [through] negligence and putting my life in danger. "[Kusinas] doubled down in his racist behaviour [afterwards]. Only now is he saying it was a joke. There's nothing jokey about any of what he said. He put my life in danger. Nobody spots like that, with their knee. "It's never going to feel justified... I trained through injuries just to prepare. I've put my body through a lot for this to happen. There's never going to be any real justice." Muluh, who has won multiple accolades in the sport, went on to say she did not feel welcome at the event in Lithuania. "I hope [the IPF] do things differently - that they consider the safety of athletes more and especially minority people. I feel that's what has been missing - we have been made to compete in places we didn't feel welcome. "People looked down on us in Lithuania in a very disgusting way. When I competed in Poland someone sneezed in my face at the airport. "Some black athletes are booed in competition, we have to worry about our skin colour while competing. "Powerlifting has been a very supportive niche sport, so far. But who is standing up for athletes against racism? This situation has changed my view a lot. There's a lot of people who didn't speak out about it. A lot of big names didn't say a word about it. They didn't reach out to me. All the black athletes reached out, so we all supported each other." Speaking to Reuters, Kusinas added he ​unintentionally interfered with Muluh's and other athletes' attempts because he was tired after his duties at the event. In a statement the IPF said: "The IPF unequivocally condemns racism, discrimination, and hateful conduct in all its forms. Such behaviour has no place within the IPF or the global powerlifting community. "We acknowledge and commend the Lithuanian Powerlifting Federation for its prompt and decisive response to this matter, including its immediate action to permanently ban the individual from participation within the federation. "In addition, the IPF will co-ordinate with the relevant IPF commissions, the IPF safeguarding officer, and the IPF Championships Team to identify opportunities to strengthen the recruitment, screening, accreditation, and oversight of volunteers supporting IPF events. "The IPF remains steadfast in its commitment to equality, inclusion, integrity, and fair play. Racism, discrimination, and hate have no place in our sport." Following Kusinas' lifetime ban by the Lithuanian Powerlifting Federation, it said in a statement: "We would like to address the situation that unfolded on socal media. We reviewed available information relating to Ernestas Kusinas and were deeply shocked by the views and activities addressed publicly which contradict the principles we stand for. "The federation takes full responsibility for addressing this matter." Related topics Weightlifting More on this story The athlete who has never held her Olympic medal Published 7 days ago Shorts Previous Next 0:46 Chelsea's16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli. 00:00:46, play video Chelsea's16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli 1:15 How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? 00:01:15, play video How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? 0:36 Salah mobbed by fans on arrival for Trabzonspor move. 00:00:36, play video Salah mobbed by fans on arrival for Trabzonspor move 0:38 What is the 'Bra-gate' controversy in cycling? 00:00:38, play video What is the 'Bra-gate' controversy in cycling? 0:30 Wilkinson's Welsh language progress. 00:00:30, play video Wilkinson's Welsh language progress 1:00 What has happened to Kulusevski? 00:01:00, play video What has happened to Kulusevski? 0:23 Why Monga chose Man City over Arsenal. 00:00:23, play video Why Monga chose Man City over Arsenal 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:50 Goodburn to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea. 00:00:50, play video Goodburn to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea Top stories Fifa admits mistakes but Infantino remains president Published 29 minutes ago Newcastle appoint Jaissle - what should fans expect? Published 3 hours ago Sloppy Arsenal suffer in Real Betis friendly loss Elsewhere on the BBC Superman 1978: The classic superhero blockbuster What did we learn from D4vd's preliminary hearing? Follow police investigations from the 999 call to conviction Undressing the hidden history of underwear Elsewhere in Sport Newcastle appoint Jaissle - what should fans expect? Lines to be first British woman in America's Cup team for 90 years How Buttler became T20 cricket's run-scoring GOAT Why Liverpool are ready to make Barcola third £100m signing No WSL experience but who is new Man Utd boss Olid? What happens next with Rashford and Man Utd? Why £1m-a-season deal will be hard for Pollock and Hearn to find A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season Runs and records galore as Sunrisers beat Spirit. Video Runs and records galore as Sunrisers beat Spirit Why we are still waiting for the 'Newey effect' - F1 Q&A The summer that changed Welsh football The ex-sandwich maker who cycles to Champions League games How Mumbai Indians takeover has affected MI London & Surrey 'No guarantees' - joyful Glasgow cannot banish all Commonwealth doubts Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.