Polymarket seeks fundraising round at more than $20 billion valuation Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Prediction Markets Polymarket in talks for fundraising round at more than $20 billion valuation Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 9:31 AM EDT Davis Giangiulio @in/davis-giangiulio @GiangiulioDavis WATCH LIVE Key Points Prediction market platform Polymarket is in talks for a potential new funding round at a valuation above $20 billion, a person familiar with the matter confirmed to CNBC. The talks come after the company told CNBC in late June that its annualized revenue was well above $1 billion. Prediction markets have experienced huge growth in the private markets as platforms continue to gain popularity. A Polymarket billboard displaying New York City mayoral election odds in Times Square in New York, US, on Tuesday, Nov. 4, 2025. Adam Gray | Bloomberg | Getty Images Prediction market platform Polymarket is in talks for a fundraising round that would value the company at north of $20 billion, a person familiar with the matter confirmed to CNBC. The talks and valuation come after the company told CNBC in late June that its annualized revenue was well above $1 billion, following the launch of its regulated U.S. exchange in May. Bloomberg first reported on Tuesday about the new talks and valuation. Polymarket declined a request to comment by CNBC. The person familiar with the situation — who asked not to be named to discuss the ongoing fundraising talks — also confirmed that the company previously closed a funding round in April that valued Polymarket at $15 billion. The Information first reported about the funding round that same month, but the company did not confirm the round's closure at the time. That round included an additional $600 million direct cash investment by New York Stock Exchange owner Intercontinental Exchange announced in March , Bloomberg reported. Prediction market platforms are continuing to experience huge growth while staying private. In May, Polymarket's chief rival, Kalshi, announced the closure of a funding round that valued the company at $22 billion. The Financial Times reported in June that Kalshi was in talks to raise new funds in the third quarter and would seek a $40 billion valuation. If a new funding round for Polymarket closes, it would mark the first since the U.S. exchange's official launch, though the platform debuted with a waitlist in December. The U.S. exchange is doing north of $100 million in notional volume per day — up from around $75 million at the end of May — while the company's international platform is recording daily notional volume above $150 million, according to data from Dune Analytics. — CNBC's Ananya Chetia contributed reporting Disclosure: CNBC and Kalshi have a commercial relationship that includes customer acquisition and a minority investment. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by