Complainant wants to ‘humiliate’ Alan Jones by revealing intimate details of alleged assaults, defence tells court | Alan Jones trial | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Alan Jones (left) arrives at a Sydney court on Friday. He has denied indecently assaulting and sexually touching six men. Photograph: Bianca de Marchi/AAP View image in fullscreen Alan Jones (left) arrives at a Sydney court on Friday. He has denied indecently assaulting and sexually touching six men. Photograph: Bianca de Marchi/AAP Alan Jones trial Complainant wants to ‘humiliate’ Alan Jones by revealing intimate details of alleged assaults, defence tells court Barrister alleges ‘account of penis wiggling is an attempt to humiliate’ broadcaster who has pleaded not guilty to 22 charges of indecent assault and sexual touching Get our breaking news email , free app or daily news podcast Amanda Meade Fri 7 Aug 2026 04.38 EDT First published on Fri 7 Aug 2026 01.30 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Alan Jones’s defence barrister has told a Sydney court one of the broadcaster’s alleged victims invented details of alleged indecent assaults at a Fitzroy Falls farm to “humiliate” and “smear” the former media titan. Complainant J told the court during evidence-in-chief earlier this week that during one alleged incident in the property’s bedroom, Jones’s penis was not fully erect and “not very big”. On Friday, J, during cross-examination, denied fabricating his account of alleged indecent assaults at Jones’s farm in the southern highlands more than 20 years ago. Complainant J, aged in his 40s, is the first alleged victim to give evidence in the trial at Downing Centre local court. Jones, 85, has pleaded not guilty to 22 indecent assault and sexual touching charges involving six men. J this week alleged in court he did not consent to a kiss near the farm’s pigsty, the touching of his penis on a lounge room couch or sexual touching in the guest bedroom. Alan Jones’s alleged victim denies ‘fabricating’ claims against broadcaster during robust cross-examination Read more Under cross-examination by defence barrister Gabrielle Bashir SC, complainant J on Friday denied inventing details about Jones’s genitals to humiliate the older man. Bashir asked: “This account you’ve given of ‘penis wiggling’ is an attempt to humiliate Mr Jones, isn’t it?” “No,” J replied. Bashir suggested in court that it was “an attempt to smear him, isn’t it?” J again said: “No.” Sign up for the Breaking News Australia email J has previously alleged that when visiting the farm as a teenager, he heard a “tap, tap, tap” before Jones came into the bedroom. He told the court that, while they were both wearing robes, Jones wiggled his hips so their penises crossed. Bashir said: “You cast yourself as ‘impressive’ and Alan as not achieving an erection as part of the humiliation you are trying to describe, didn’t you? So too your comment on Tuesday that ‘it wasn’t very big’.” “No,” J replied in court on Friday. Bashir alleged: “You wouldn’t know because you have never seen Mr Jones’s penis.” Complainant J then said: “Yes, I have.” J said that Jones had remarked that the then teenager’s penis was “impressive”. He had earlier told the court that Jones’s penis was circumcised and his genitals were hairy. Bashir suggested that he guessed the details because circumcision was likely for an “Anglo-Saxon man of his age – and so too the hair on the genitals”. J disagreed that he had guessed. Throughout the cross-examination, Bashir alleged that J was forgetting key details because he had made the whole thing up. Bashir told the court: “Are you making your evidence up as you go along?” “No,” complainant J replied. Bashir challenged J’s memory of his visits to the southern highlands property in the mid-2000s, suggesting in court that he had mixed up occasions, dates and fellow guests. J agreed that his family was invited to visit the property, and he accompanied them. Bashir said there were inconsistencies in his police statement and his evidence in court regarding how many nights he stayed and which vehicle he drove. Bashir questioned J in detail about an alleged kiss by Jones while the two men were looking at a pigsty on the farm. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | When needed Sign up to Breaking News Australia Get the most important news as it breaks Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion Bashir told the court: “There was no kiss at the pigsty. It was a fabrication.” J replied: “No, it wasn’t.” The defence barrister said if J was afraid of being assaulted, as he claimed, he didn’t have to walk into the lounge room wearing a robe after Jones instructed him to shower and come back wearing the robe and nothing else. She pointed to inconsistencies between his police statement and evidence-in-chief. Bashir said: “There is nothing in your statement about a robe.” J replied: “I remember he was in a robe.” Bashir suggested he read about Jones wearing a robe in the media. J denied this but agreed there was no mention of Jones wearing a robe in his statement. The defence barrister said J’s account of the alleged assaults did not make sense because he was young and fit – and he could have pushed the older Jones away. Bashir asked if Jones had ever threatened to withdraw his stipend and J said no. Bashir said: “He never said to you he would pull the money if you didn’t do what he wanted, did he?” J replied: “No.” J agreed that there were “no repercussions” when he couldn’t make invitations from Jones and that Jones didn’t ask him for favours in return for financial support Bashir said: “All Mr Jones asked of you was that you dedicate yourself to your career.” J told the court: “That’s not all he asked me.” Bashir closed her cross-examination with two final questions. Bashir said: “Alan Jones never kissed you indecently.” J replied: “Yes, he did” Bashir said: “Alan Jones never indecently touched you.” J said: “Yes, he did.” The trial continues on Tuesday with J returning to the witness stand for a sixth day for a re-examination by the crown. There is a break in evidence on Monday. Explore more on these topics Alan Jones trial Alan Jones Australian media news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story ‘Number 1, struggle street’ and a $1,200 stipend: inside the first week of Alan Jones’s trial 1d ago Pauline Hanson echoes Trump as she lashes out about ‘fake news’ reporting on lavish London hotel 1d ago Journalists at Alan Jones’s trial off to ‘inauspicious’ start as spelling error and rogue mobile phone antagonise judge 2d ago Alan Jones on Trial Alan Jones on Trial: a ‘fearful’ friendship and ‘generous’ payments – podcast 2d ago Alan Jones’s alleged victim denies ‘fabricating’ claims against broadcaster during robust cross-examination 2d ago ABC apologises to Gina Rinehart over controversial Race Around the World episode 2d ago Alan Jones on Trial Introducing: Alan Jones on Trial podcast 3d ago News Corp subscriptions fall in Australia as company takes aim at ‘slimy’ AI slop 3d ago Pauline Hanson has knocked another brick out of our creaky political system. It’s not good for anybody 4d ago … … comments Alan Jones paid student athlete he is accused of indecently assaulting $110,000 over a decade, trial hears 4d ago Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)