Sen. Mitch McConnell says he's left rehab, will work from home Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Politics & Policy Sen. Mitch McConnell says he's left rehab, will work from home Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 3:47 PM EDT Updated Thu, Aug 6 2026 4:52 PM EDT Kevin Breuninger @KevinWilliamB Garrett Downs @in/garrettmdowns/ @_garrettdowns WATCH LIVE Key Points Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said he has been discharged from a rehabilitation facility and will keep up with his Senate work from home. McConnell has not been seen or heard in public since he was hospitalized in mid-June after suffering a fall at his home in Washington and then contracting pneumonia. Kentucky's Democratic Gov. Andy Beshear had recently urged McConnell to resign if he cannot prove his fitness for office. McConnell's recovery could be critical to confirming President Donald Trump's pick for attorney general, Todd Blanche. Senator Mitch McConnell (R-KY) is seen during a Senate Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Department of Defense budget hearing at the Dirksen Senate Office Building in Washington, DC on May 19, 2026. Nathan Posner | Anadolu | Getty Images Sen. Mitch McConnell , R-Ky., said Thursday he has been discharged from a rehabilitation facility and will keep up with his Senate work from home, as he continues to recover following nearly two months of medical care after a fall . "On the advice of my doctors, I'll maintain an intensive regimen of physical therapy from home during the state work period," the 84-year-old senator said in a written statement. He added, "I'll continue to engage with my staff and colleagues on important Senate business." McConnell has not been seen or heard in public since he was hospitalized in mid-June after suffering the fall at his home in Washington and then contracting pneumonia. His staff has largely kept mum about the senior senator's condition, despite mounting scrutiny from the media and some elected officials. McConnell's aides have periodically released written statements from the senator providing brief updates on his recovery progress. Some of those press releases have included photos of a seated, smiling McConnell alongside his wife, former Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao. In one of them, McConnell is holding a newspaper, possibly to provide proof the photo was not taken earlier. But no video or audio of McConnell has been released so far, and the scant, largely text-based assurances of his improvement have only fueled more speculation. Read more CNBC politics and policy coverage Khanna to introduce ‘Data Center Bill of Rights’ as fight over AI power plants heats up Kids Online Safety Act social media safety bill advances in Senate Trump admin refunds $100 billion in ‘liberation day’ tariffs Kentucky's Democratic Gov. Andy Beshear recently urged McConnell to resign if he cannot prove his fitness for office. Thursday's press release did not include a photo. McConnell said in a July 12 statement that he was moved to a rehab center, where he has apparently remained for more than three weeks. He also revealed that, according to his doctors, he "briefly" lost consciousness in the fall. But he broke no bones and did not suffer a heart attack, concussion or stroke, and he has no tumors or hemorrhages, McConnell's statement said. On July 27, the congressional Office of the Attending Physician said doctors were meeting with McConnell at the facility every day, "discussing all aspects of his rehabilitation care." McConnell, the third-oldest member of the Senate behind Sens. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, and Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., has experienced numerous health scares in recent years, including multiple falls and verbal freeze-ups . He is not seeking reelection. McConnell's recovery could be critical to confirming President Donald Trump 's pick for attorney general, Todd Blanche, this week. Republicans hold a narrow 53-47 majority in the Senate, which has been winnowed to 52 during McConnell's extended absence — meaning Blanche can only afford two Republican defections to be confirmed. If McConnell returns to the Senate, it could give the GOP a three-vote cushion to get the current acting attorney general across the finish line. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by