Disney gives TikTok creators official access to Marvel, Star Wars, and Pixar characters | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Policy The homepage Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Search Light System Dark Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business See all tech Reviews Smart Home Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Headphone Reviews See all reviews Science Space Energy Environment Health See all science Entertainment TV Shows Movies Audio See all entertainment AI OpenAI Anthropic See all AI Policy Antitrust Politics Law Security See all policy Gadgets Laptops Phones TVs Headphones Speakers Wearables See all gadgets Verge Shopping Buying Guides Deals Gift Guides See all shopping Gaming Xbox PlayStation Nintendo See all gaming Streaming Disney HBO Netflix YouTube Creators See all streaming Transportation Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-sharing Scooters See all transportation Features Verge Video TikTok YouTube Instagram Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Version History Newsletters Archives Store Verge Product Updates Subscribe Disney gives TikTok creators official access to Marvel, Star Wars, and Pixar characters Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Streaming Streaming Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Follow See All Streaming Business Business Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Follow See All Business News News Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Follow See All News Disney gives TikTok creators official access to Marvel, Star Wars, and Pixar characters ﻿Disney Plus will host ‘thoughtfully curated’ fan-made videos starting in the US. ﻿Disney Plus will host ‘thoughtfully curated’ fan-made videos starting in the US. by Jess Weatherbed Jess Weatherbed News Reporter Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Follow See All by Jess Weatherbed Aug 5, 2026, 11:38 AM UTC Image: Disney / Pixar Jess Weatherbed Jess Weatherbed Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Follow See All by Jess Weatherbed is a news writer focused on creative industries, computing, and internet culture. Jess started her career at TechRadar, covering news and hardware reviews. Disney is introducing fan-created TikTok content to its Disney Plus app in its latest attempt to break into short-form creator videos. The Walt Disney Company announced today that it’s partnering with TikTok to bring “an expansive collection of thoughtfully curated Disney-centric fan-created content” to the Verts video feed it launched on Disney Plus earlier this year, providing creators with access to assets from “hundreds” of movies and TV shows. The partnership will be piloted in the US “in the coming months,” according to Disney, with plans to launch in other markets later. Videos from TikTok creators who opt-in to the program will be hosted on both the TikTok and Disney Plus platforms, and will feature a host of scenes and characters from Disney’s brands, including Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars , and more. Disney says the jointly-run creator program will also grant certain perks to participating TikTok creators, including increased visibility, exclusive event access, and career development pathways. Disney was planning a similar partnership with OpenAI that would have allowed the AI provider’s now defunct Sora video generator to train on and replicate protected Disney IP, in exchange for hosting Sora-made videos on Disney Plus. There’s nothing in Disney’s new partnership with TikTok that specifically excludes AI tools, but we’ve reached out to clarify. Follow topics and authors from this story to see more like this in your personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates. Jess Weatherbed Jess Weatherbed News Reporter Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Follow See All by Jess Weatherbed Business Business Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Follow See All Business Creators Creators Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Follow See All Creators Disney Disney Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Follow See All Disney News News Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Follow See All News Streaming Streaming Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Follow See All Streaming Tech Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Follow See All Tech TikTok TikTok Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Follow See All TikTok Most Popular Most Popular Sonos introduces new headphones, soundbar, and software in its biggest announcement in years Dyson made a camera-equipped toothbrush that flosses for you GoPro has been acquired and is getting into ‘defense, government, robotics and aerospace’ Nvidia’s DLSS 5, explained Tim Cook’s Apple: his 10 biggest wins and misses The Verge Daily A free daily digest of the news that matters most. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Streaming The Google TV Streamer now costs $50 more Apple TV now costs $14.99 a month after its fourth price hike in four years GTA VI looks just as great as we could hope for If Meta’s going down, it’s taking TikTok and YouTube with it You can now buy music on SoundCloud ESPN streaming plans are getting more expensive The Google TV Streamer now costs $50 more Stevie Bonifield Aug 31 Apple TV now costs $14.99 a month after its fourth price hike in four years Stevie Bonifield Aug 28 GTA VI looks just as great as we could hope for Jay Peters Aug 27 If Meta’s going down, it’s taking TikTok and YouTube with it Lauren Feiner Aug 27 You can now buy music on SoundCloud Jess Weatherbed Aug 26 ESPN streaming plans are getting more expensive Emma Roth Aug 24 Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories Sep 1 Get ready for a really busy month of smartphones Sep 1 Nvidia’s DLSS 5, explained Sep 1 Tim Cook did alright by the environment — but AI could upend his climate legacy Sep 1 The rise of AI ‘civilizations’ and the fall of corporate responsibility Sep 1 Sonos introduces new headphones, soundbar, and software in its biggest announcement in years Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines Archives About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices Cookie Notice AdChoices Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Penske Media Corporation The Verge is a part of PMX Global, LLC, a subsidiary of Penske Media Corporation. © 2026 VM Publishing, LLC. All rights reserved. Our Sites The American Pavilion ARTnews Art in America Artforum Art Week NYC Beauty Inc Billboard Deadline Dick Clark Productions The Dodo Eater Flow Space FN Gold Derby Golden Globes The Hollywood Reporter IndieWire Life is Beautiful Popsugar Punch SJ Denim Robb Report Rolling Stone SB Nation SHE Media She Knows Sourcing Journal Soaps Sportico StyleCaster SXSW Thrillist Variety The Verge Vibe WWD Notifications Drawer Sign in to see your notifications or create an account to join the conversation. Sign in