UN experts urge Canada to protect Sikh activist amid credible threats to his life | Sikhism | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Moninder Singh, centre, speaks to the media in September 2023 after Hardeep Singh Nijjar was killed outside a gurdwara in Surrey, British Columbia. Photograph: The Canadian Press/Alamy View image in fullscreen Moninder Singh, centre, speaks to the media in September 2023 after Hardeep Singh Nijjar was killed outside a gurdwara in Surrey, British Columbia. Photograph: The Canadian Press/Alamy Sikhism UN experts urge Canada to protect Sikh activist amid credible threats to his life Special rapporteurs say ‘transnational repression by Indian authorities’ has put Moninder Singh in danger Agence France-Press in Geneva Tue 4 Aug 2026 08.17 EDT Last modified on Tue 4 Aug 2026 08.40 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google UN rights experts have urged Canada to take all feasible measures to protect the Sikh activist Moninder Singh , who has been repeatedly warned by the Canadian authorities of credible threats to his life. Sign up for This Is India: our free weekly newsletter on life in the subcontinent Read more In a letter to the Canadian government, the five UN experts raised “concerning allegations of foreign intimidation and reprisals” against Singh, a Canadian national. The letter recalled that since 2022, Singh has received four “duty to warn” notices from the Canadian authorities about credible and imminent threats to his life. It urged Canada to “take all feasible measures at its disposal to protect Mr Moninder Singh and his family, as well as similarly situated individuals on Canadian soil”. It went on to say: “We also urge the authorities to accelerate the investigations into these allegations, hold perpetrators accountable, ensure adequate remedy to victims and take all steps to prevent reoccurrence.” The letter, dated 3 June and made public two months later, was written by the special rapporteurs on: protecting rights while countering terrorism; freedom of peaceful assembly; human rights defenders; freedom of religion; and the expert on promoting a democratic international order. UN special rapporteurs and experts are independent figures appointed by the Human Rights Council to report their findings. They do not, therefore, speak for the UN itself. A copy of the letter was also sent to the Indian government. View image in fullscreen Members of the Sikh community in Peshawar, Pakistan, stage a protest in 2023 after the killing Hardeep Singh Nijjar. Photograph: Muhammad Sajjad/AP Singh visited the UN in Geneva earlier this year to appeal for international action against India’s alleged targeting of Sikh activists abroad and against transnational repression more broadly. Sikh activists accuse India of targeting members of their community around the world, including alleged killings using organised crime groups – charges that India denies. The best-known case was the 2023 killing of Hardeep Singh Nijjar, a friend of Singh’s who was shot dead near the Sikh temple he led in a Vancouver suburb. Canada’s then-prime minister, Justin Trudeau, publicly accused India of involvement in that assassination , a charge later repeated by Canadian intelligence. India denied the allegations but the row chilled ties between the two nations, both of which expelled a string of diplomats in 2024. Canadian intelligence accuses India over Sikh’s killing as Carney meets Modi Read more Relations improved after the Canadian prime minister, Mark Carney, took office last year, culminating with an India visit in March to sign a string of trade deals, as Canadian authorities downplayed their previous threat assessment. Like Nijjar, Singh, 44, is part of a fringe group advocating for an independent Sikh state called Khalistan . The Khalistan campaign dates to India’s 1947 independence and has been blamed for the assassination of a prime minister and the bombing of a passenger jet. It has been a contentious issue between India and several western nations with large Sikh populations. In their letter, the experts said they were concerned that the threats against Singh “fall within a broader pattern of transnational repression by Indian authorities against Sikh activists in different countries, including Canada”. Singh said the letter was “a stark reminder of how far the Indian state is willing to go to silence Sikh voices advocating for self-determination”. “When a foreign state feels empowered to commit violence in Canada to silence dissent, it signals a profound failure to protect the rights and safety of targeted communities,” he said. “I refuse to be intimidated into silence. My leadership and advocacy for Khalistan are rooted in international law, human rights principles and most importantly the lived experiences of my community,” Singh added. Explore more on these topics Sikhism Canada India Religion South and central Asia United Nations news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Canadian Sikh activist faces fresh death threats on eve of Carney visit to India 26 Feb 2026 Minister issues warning after British Sikhs report harassment by India 19 Dec 2024 British Sikhs being asked about views on India at UK airports, says Labour MP 15 Dec 2024 Canada denies it has evidence linking Modi to killing of Sikh separatists 22 Nov 2024 UK calls for India to cooperate with Canada’s legal process as row deepens 16 Oct 2024 Canadian police accuse Indian diplomats of ‘criminal’ activities including homicides 14 Oct 2024 Pakistan accuses Indian agents of two assassinations on its soil 25 Jan 2024 Sikhs in West Midlands given ‘threat to life’ warnings as activists fear targeting by India 15 Jan 2024 Conservative MP writes to home secretary over Sikh activist’s sudden death 3 Jan 2024 Family of Sikh activist call for new UK investigation into his death 20 Dec 2023 Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)