After Nearly a Decade, Boeing's 737 MAX-7 Is Finally Certified But Southwest Doesn't Plan to Fly It Until 2027 Now Reading After Nearly a Decade, Boeing’s 737 MAX-7 Is Finally Certified But Southwest Doesn’t Plan to Fly It Until 2027 News All Recruitment News American Airlines British Airways Delta Air Lines Etihad Emirates Qatar Airways Southwest United American Airlines Flight Attendants Say They Are Being Put in ‘Danger’ By ICE Agents as Enforcement at Airports Ramps Up JetBlue Unveils Its Take On Domestic First Class… Cold Meals Served in Cardboard ‘Bento’ Boxes Bad News For Non-Rev Staff Travelers: The United Airlines App Now Lets Passengers Place Themselves On Standby During Disruptions Emirates is Going On a Global Hiring Spree as it Prepares For “Steep Growth Trajectory” Delta Air Lines is Recruiting Flight Attendants… But Candidates Have to Survive a Five-Stage Assessment Process Before They Can Land the Job United Airlines is Recruiting Flight Attendants With a Top Pay Scale of $67 Per Hour American Airlines Flight Attendants Say They Are Being Put in ‘Danger’ By ICE Agents as Enforcement at Airports Ramps Up American Airlines Bolsters Maintenance Workforce to Combat Broken Seats, Wonky Tray Tables And Defective In-Flight Entertainment Systems American Airlines to Pay $200,000 to Settle Federal Discrimination Lawsuit After it Terminated Reservations Agent Who Lost Her Eyesight Fire Erupts in Luggage Container Moments Before it Was Due to Be Loaded on Packed British Airways Plane at Milan Malpensa British Airways Sued After Flight Attendant ‘Struck’ a Passenger in the Head… Although it’s Not What it Seems Major Pilots’ Union Issues Warning Over ‘Potentially Catastrophic’ Engine Shutdown Fault On Popular Airbus Airplanes Delta Air Lines Plans to Restart Service to Tel Aviv On September 8… Two Days Ahead of United Delta Air Lines Set to Start Training Flight Attendants On New (But Secretive) Onboard Experience For Delta One Delta Air Lines Flight Attendants Ordered Not to Let Passengers Hold Onto Pre-Departure Beverages For Takeoff… Yes, That Includes Plastic Cups Etihad Airways Plans to Expand Capacity Above Pre-Iran War Levels Despite Continuing Uncertainty in the Region Etihad Airways Reveals Major Israel Expansion With up to Six Daily Flights to Tel Aviv Serving Pent Up Demand Breaking: Etihad Airways Restarts Flights From Abu Dhabi Despite Saying it Wasn’t Emirates Wants to Fly Between Milan and Lima… But This Could Just Be the Beginning Of a Larger Fifth-Freedom Operation in Italy Passengers Trapped On Emirates A380 Superjumbo For Nearly 24 Hours After One Thing After Another Goes Wrong Emirates is Introducing a ‘Game-Changing’ Economy Class Headrest That Will ‘Significantly Improve’ Long-Haul Comfort Qatar Airways Faces Lawsuit Over Death of Passenger Served Sandwich That Triggered Severe Anaphylactic Shock Qatar Airways Cargo Boeing 777 Makes Terrifying Low Flyby… Experts Say it Was ‘Inches From Disaster’ Qatar Airways Has Picked the ‘Brunchgate’ Executive as its New Chief Customer Officer Southwest Airlines Told It Can’t Terminate Anti-Abortion Flight Attendant For Future Social Media Posts Family Suspect Foul Play in Death of Southwest Airlines Flight Attendant Who Fell From Her 24th-Floor Hotel Balcony in Hawaii After Nearly a Decade, Boeing’s 737 MAX-7 Is Finally Certified But Southwest Doesn’t Plan to Fly It Until 2027 Bad News For Non-Rev Staff Travelers: The United Airlines App Now Lets Passengers Place Themselves On Standby During Disruptions United Airlines Copies Lufthansa With Flight 222 to Toulouse… Say it Fast, You Won’t Be Disappointed United Airlines Has Hundreds of Lie-Flat Business Class Seats Sitting in Storage That It Doesn’t Know What to Do With Crew Insider Points & Miles Offers Follow Facebook Twitter Now Week Month Bad News For Non-Rev Staff Travelers: The United Airlines App Now Lets Passengers Place Themselves On Standby During Disruptions JetBlue Quietly Changes Onboard Announcements Because it Can No Longer Brag About Generous Legroom American Airlines Flight Attendants Say They Are Being Put in ‘Danger’ By ICE Agents as Enforcement at Airports Ramps Up JetBlue Unveils Its Take On Domestic First Class… Cold Meals Served in Cardboard ‘Bento’ Boxes Russian Citizen Living in Florida Found Guilty of Smuggling Aircraft Spare Parts for Sanction-Hit Airline Aeroflot Airline News After Nearly a Decade, Boeing’s 737 MAX-7 Is Finally Certified But Southwest Doesn’t Plan to Fly It Until 2027 by Mateusz Maszczynski 3rd August 2026 Southwest Airlines still intends to be the launch customer of the newly certified Boeing 737 MAX 7 aircraft, although current schedule data shows that the Dallas-based carrier has no plans to operate the aircraft in 2026, and the model doesn’t appear in schedule lines through March 2027. The 737 MAX 7, now commonly just called the 737-7, won certification from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) on Monday after nearly a decade of “sustained work to resolve complex technical issues and complete a thorough review of the airplane’s design and supporting safety analyses.” The aircraft is the smallest model in the MAX lineup, but it also comes with the furthest range, capable of flying up to 3,800 nautical miles, which is around 8.5% further than the 737-8, which Southwest also operates. Southwest plans to take delivery of up to 82 Boeing 737-7 aircraft by the end of this year, according to an SEC filing from last month. The airline warned, however, that the exact timing of deliveries would be affected by FAA certification and continued manufacturing delays. At one point, Southwest had more than 300 Boeing 737-7s on order, but it has converted some of this order into larger 737-8 models, bringing the total number on order to 262. On Monday, Southwest welcomed the long-awaited certification of the 737-7, saying in a statement: “Southwest Airlines is pleased with the FAA’s certification of the Boeing 737-7 aircraft and we look forward to the plane entering service in the coming months.” “Certification is an important step toward continuing to modernize our all-Boeing 737 fleet with upgraded interiors and more fuel-efficient aircraft to fit our Customers’ preferences and demand patterns.” The FAA originally intended to certify the 737-7 in 2019, but the fatal crashes of two larger 737-8 aircraft, the first in 2018, operated by Lion Air, and then just months later, the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines jet, meant that certification work was suspended. When the review process got back on track, engineers discovered a potentially serious issue with the CFM-manufactured engines, which meant significant design changes had to be made. Following that, further changes had to be made to flight controls and cockpit warning systems. Now that the 737-7 has been certifed we may well see Southwest planning to order even more of these aircraft. The alternative, though, is that Southwest thinks it needs to add capacity, not necessarily with more planes, but with more seats across the same fleet size. If that is the case, Southwest could end up converting more 737-7 orders into larger variants like the 737-8. Stay in the Loop Want to see more stories like this? Add PYOK as a preferred source on Google, and we'll show up more often in your searches and Google News. Add PYOK as a Preferred Source Related Subscribe to our newsletter No spam, just a weekly roundup of the best aviation news that you don't want to miss SIGN UP Mateusz Maszczynski Mateusz Maszczynski honed his skills as an international flight attendant at the most prominent airline in the Middle East and has been flying ever since... most recently for a well known European airline. Matt is passionate about the aviation industry and has become an expert in passenger experience and human-centric stories. Always keeping an ear close to the ground, Matt's industry insights, analysis and news coverage is frequently relied upon by some of the biggest names in journalism. Mateusz Maszczynski 3rd August 2026 Latest News American Airlines Flight Attendants Say They Are Being Put in ‘Danger’ By ICE Agents as Enforcement at Airports Ramps Up JetBlue Unveils Its Take On Domestic First Class… Cold Meals Served in Cardboard ‘Bento’ Boxes Bad News For Non-Rev Staff Travelers: The United Airlines App Now Lets Passengers Place Themselves On Standby During Disruptions JetBlue Quietly Changes Onboard Announcements Because it Can No Longer Brag About Generous Legroom View Comments (0) Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Name * E-mail * Website Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Related Posts American Airlines American Airlines Flight Attendants Say They Are Being Put in ‘Danger’ By ICE Agents as Enforcement at Airports Ramps Up jetBlue JetBlue Unveils Its Take On Domestic First Class… Cold Meals Served in Cardboard ‘Bento’ Boxes Airline News Bad News For Non-Rev Staff Travelers: The United Airlines App Now Lets Passengers Place Themselves On Standby During Disruptions Airline News JetBlue Quietly Changes Onboard Announcements Because it Can No Longer Brag About Generous Legroom About Contact Privacy Policy Advertising Policy Disclaimer Copyright Notice Crew Insider The Cabin Crew Forum © 2024 paddleyourownkanoo.com All Rights Reserved. Unauthorized use and/or duplication of this material without express and written permission from this site’s author and/or owner is strictly prohibited. Excerpts and links may be used, provided that full and clear credit is given to paddleyourownkanoo.com with appropriate and specific directions to the original content. Facebook Twitter News All Recruitment News American Airlines British Airways Delta Air Lines Etihad Emirates Qatar Airways Southwest United Crew Insider Points & Miles Offers About Contact Privacy Policy Advertising Policy Disclaimer Copyright Notice Crew Insider The Cabin Crew Forum Facebook Twitter PRESS ESC TO CLOSE