Colombia’s political pendulum swings right as de la Espriella is sworn in : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Colombia’s political pendulum swings right as de la Espriella is sworn in A new political era for Colombia: a hard-right president promises order, growth and confrontation. The Americas Colombia's new president vows to remake the country — and challenge rebel groups August 7, 2026 11:41 AM ET By Manuel Rueda Colombia's President-elect Abelardo de la Espriella speaks during a press conference in Bogota, Colombia, July 30, 2026. John Vizcaino/AP hide caption toggle caption John Vizcaino/AP BOGOTA, Colombia — Colombia's new president will be sworn into office Friday amid tight security measures aimed at preventing protests and potential attacks by rebel groups. Abelardo de la Espriella, an outspoken conservative who has been praised by President Trump, has promised to confront rebel groups in Colombia with greater military force while cutting government spending to reduce a budget deficit that doubled under outgoing President Gustavo Petro. De la Espriella, a former criminal defense lawyer who ran as a political outsider, is breaking with tradition by holding his inauguration ceremony in Cali rather than the capital, Bogotá. The 48-year-old chose the southwestern city, which has been hit hard by drug violence and attacks from rebel groups, as the site of his swearing-in. Sponsor Message Some 11,000 troops have been deployed to the city to ensure the safety of the new president and the roughly dozen heads of state attending the inauguration. Those expected to attend include Argentina's Javier Milei, Ecuador's Daniel Noboa and Chile's José Antonio Kast, alongside U.S. Acting Attorney General Todd Blanche, FIFA President Gianni Infantino and King Felipe VI of Spain. Drones have been banned, and privately owned vehicles will not be allowed on city roads during Inauguration Day. "One of the fundamental priorities of my government will be to exert control of our territory," de la Espriella said in a speech earlier this week. "If we don't control our cities and our rural areas, this nation will lose its sovereignty." Over the past four years, drug gangs and rebel groups linked to decades of political conflict in Colombia have become increasingly powerful in rural areas, where they extort local businesses and profit from activities such as illegal mining and the drug trade. Petro, a progressive, attempted to negotiate peace agreements with many of these groups under a strategy known as "Total Peace". But critics say the strategy failed, with some armed groups using ceasefires granted by the government to rearm, regroup and expand their control over rural communities. Sponsor Message De la Espriella has said he will end peace talks with Colombia's rebel groups and confront them with greater military force. The wealthy lawyer, who has never held elected office, supports a tougher approach to crime that includes building large prisons and using aerial spraying and drones to destroy illegal coca crops, a practice Colombia halted more than a decade ago because of environmental concerns. Elizabeth Dickinson, a Colombia analyst at the International Crisis Group, said that with de la Espriella, "the pendulum swings back to the right" after four years of a left-leaning administration that struggled to achieve results in negotiations with armed groups. She said increased military pressure could help weaken rebel groups and encourage some fighters to demobilize, but completely ending the possibility of future talks could be counterproductive. "We're talking about a conflict that has an estimated 27,000 individuals involved in different armed and criminal groups," Dickinson said. "These individuals will need a route back into normal life." De la Espriella won Colombia's presidential election by about 250,000 votes, defeating left-wing candidate Iván Cepeda by roughly one percentage point. He is the latest conservative leader elected in Latin America as voters increasingly focus on crime and security concerns. Right-wing leaders have recently won elections in Peru, Chile and Ecuador, reflecting a conservative shift in parts of South America. These politicians have sought closer alignment with the Trump administration on issues such as immigration and anti-drug policies. De la Espriella has expressed support for the Trump administration's controversial campaign of militarly strikes against vessels suspected of carrying drugs in the Caribbean and eastern Pacific, in which more than 200 people have been killed. He is also expected to speed up the extradition of rebel leaders wanted in the United States on drug charges. He has begun aligning Colombia's foreign policy with Washington by cutting diplomatic ties with Cuba and restoring relations with Israel. Sponsor Message Domestically, de la Espriella has said he wants to cut government spending by as much as 40% to reduce the growing budget deficit. He has already announced plans to close 14 Colombian embassies in Europe, Africa and the Caribbean. But de la Espriella will have to build a majority in Colombia's fragmented Congress if he wants to push through deeper reforms, said Sergio Guzmán, a political analyst in Bogotá. The new president also faces opposition from Petro, who has refused to acknowledge the election result and claimed, without providing credible evidence, that the vote count was rigged. Guzmán said the fraud allegations could fuel protests against de la Espriella's government among Colombians who are already concerned that his anti-crime policies could lead to human rights abuses by security forces. "Petro is going to be a constant nuisance for De la Espriella," Guzmán said. "But I think De la Espriella is ready for a fight with Petro, both rhetorically and potentially on the streets. Colombia Abelardo de la Espriella Gustavo Petro FARC Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR The Americas How Lionel Messi's legend is driving tourism in his hometown The Americas With U.S. doors shutting, Cubans turn to Brazil for asylum The Americas Keiko Fujimori is inaugurated as Peru's president following a narrow election victory The Americas Nicaragua's President Ortega says no more elections, extending his 20-year rule The Americas Venezuela's earthquake recovery overshadows its push for democracy Soccer Edition Old rivals, new battle: Argentina and England clash in World Cup Semifinal Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Shots - Health News Take The ACE Quiz — And Learn What It Does And Doesn't Mean Family Amid cost of living stress, many parents are supporting children well into adulthood Politics Senate votes to confirm Todd Blanche as attorney general Politics Another court blocks White House ballroom work, teeing up a Supreme Court review Up First Newsletter Trump targets birthright citizenship. And, Iran aims to ban U.S. from Strait of Hormuz Real Talk With a Doc Everyone's talking about hormone therapy for menopause. Should I be on it? NPR Editors' Picks Elections Data centers are a political issue crossing party lines, driving voters to candidates The Ripple Effect How Jim James and Jeff Tweedy learned to love the Grateful Dead Economy Trump renews push to fire Fed Governor Lisa Cook Politics Senate passes Russia sanctions bill that was long championed by Lindsey Graham Economy Employers unexpectedly cut 23,000 jobs in a sign of a wilting labor market Music Can Role Model move past his viral moment by leaning into authenticity? Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices