Trump admin refunds $100 billion in 'liberation day' tariffs Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Politics & Policy Trump admin refunds $100 billion in 'liberation day' tariffs Published Wed, Aug 5 2026 10:36 AM EDT Updated Wed, Aug 5 2026 3:31 PM EDT Kevin Breuninger @KevinWilliamB WATCH LIVE Key Points The Trump administration said it has refunded about $100 billion of the tariff revenue that was collected through President Donald Trump's 2025 "liberation day" duties. The Supreme Court scrapped those IEEPA tariffs, and a federal judge ordered that the money must be refunded. Trump, who placed heavy-handed tariffs at the center of his economic and foreign policy agendas, has vented rage at the Supreme Court over the ruling. An American flag flies near the Ever Memo container ship at the Port of Los Angeles on May 28, 2026 in Los Angeles, California. Mario Tama | Getty Images The Trump administration said it has refunded about $100 billion of the tariff revenue that was collected before President Donald Trump 's " liberation day " duties were struck down by the Supreme Court . The figure, reported Tuesday in a filing in the U.S. Court of International Trade, represents about 60% of the roughly $166 billion the government says it raked in from the sweeping tariffs Trump imposed in 2025 using the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, or IEEPA . Those tariffs were scrapped in late February after the high court ruled IEEPA did not authorize them. About two weeks later, federal Judge Richard Eaton ordered that tariffs collected under IEEPA must be refunded to the importers. Trump, who placed heavy-handed tariffs at the center of his economic and foreign policy agendas, has vented his rage over the court rulings, and his administration has recently taken a series of steps to effectively re-create the IEEPA tariff regime using other legal authorities. "Tariffs have been incredible. We've taken in hundreds of billions of dollars," Trump said Tuesday in a Fox News interview. "Supreme Court gave us a little shot, but we're allowed to do it in a different manner." Those different tariff methods are already facing their own court challenges . In the meantime, the Trump administration has been doling out refunds to the defunct IEEPA regime. U.S. Customs and Border Protection in late April implemented a system called Consolidated Administration and Processing of Entries, or CAPE, to track and deliver tariff refunds. As of July 31, CAPE has received 252,496 tariff refund declarations covering more than 25 million import entries, CBP official Brandon Lord said in Tuesday's filing, a court-ordered update on the administration's progress delivering the refunds. Read more CNBC politics coverage ChatGPT dominates early AI spending in Congress as lawmakers weigh regulation Trump slams Pirro after she moves to drop Reflecting Pool vandalism case Analysis: Markets heard a dovish Warsh. Fed chairman's words suggest a rate hike Nearly $129 billion in "both potential and certified refunds" have been accepted for processing through the CAPE system, Lord said. Of that total, approximately $100 billion has been completed, certified and sent to the Treasury Department for disbursement, he wrote. The filing came in a lawsuit filed by Freestyle World, a California-based importer that seeks to mount a class action on behalf of smaller businesses that paid IEEPA tariffs and say they face barriers getting refunds through CAPE. The government maintains that the request for class certification came too late and is invalid anyway. Either way, the Trump administration's refund operation still has a long way to go: more than 330,000 importers paid IEEPA tariffs on over 53 million entries. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by