Blue Note to bring world-famous jazz club to London | London | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 3 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland Blue Note jazz club in New York City. Photograph: Johnny Nunez/WireImage View image in fullscreen Blue Note jazz club in New York City. Photograph: Johnny Nunez/WireImage London Blue Note to bring world-famous jazz club to London Grammy-winning pianist Robert Glasper will headline opening of club’s first UK venue in Covent Garden next month Caroline Davies Thu 6 Aug 2026 05.00 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 05.05 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google The world-famous New York jazz club Blue Note will open its first UK venue in London next month. Located in the basement of St Martins Lane hotel, Covent Garden, the club promises the best of British jazz alongside world-class international artists, with a programme featuring emerging and established talent. Founded in Greenwich Village, New York City, in 1981, Blue Note has since expanded across the US and into Japan, China, Brazil and Italy. The London venue will be its first in the UK. Robert Glasper , the Grammy-winning US pianist, producer and songwriter, will headline the grand opening on 23 September, marking the the centenary of the influential US saxophonist, bandleader and composer John Coltrane. “London has been a big supporter in my career from the very beginning and I’ve always had so much respect for the musical culture of the UK past and present,” Glasper said. View image in fullscreen The musician Robert Glasper says Blue Note in London will offer a space for jazz, hip-hop and R&B to evolve and thrive. Photograph: Jim Dyson/Getty Images “There is a deep love for music that pushes boundaries and Blue Note has always been a home for that same spirit. Starting this new club is about creating a space where jazz, R&B, hip-hop and everything in between can meet, evolve and surprise people. “I’m excited to build something in London that feels intimate, fearless and alive – a place where artists can take chances and audiences can experience the music up close.” The venue will feature two performance spaces . Its 250-capacity main room will stage two shows each night and remain open until 1am from Monday to Saturday, and until midnight on Sundays. Tickets for the first run of shows will go on general sale on 14 August. A second, 100-capacity room, B-Side, supporting emerging British talent, is due to open later this year. View image in fullscreen London performances and residencies will include Erykah Badu. Photograph: Michael Blackshire/Los Angeles Times/Getty Images Tsion Bensusan, the co-owner of Blue Note Entertainment Group, described the opening as a “significant milestone”, adding: “London has always been one of the world’s great music capitals, with an extraordinary jazz heritage and an incredibly diverse creative community,. “Our hope is that Blue Note London becomes more than a venue – it becomes a home for musicians, a gathering place for the community and an integral part of London’s cultural landscape.” Performances and residencies will include the neo-soul singer Erykah Badu , jazz-pop pianist and songwriter Jamie Cullum , award-winning saxophonist and composer Nubya Garcia , drummer Yussef Dayes , afrobeat collective Kokoroko and rapper Hak Baker. The club will also host occasional surprise performances by leading artists, giving audiences the chance to experience internationally renowned musicians in an intimate setting – a hallmark of Blue Note venues worldwide. Explore more on these topics London Jazz New York Hospitality industry news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)