Officer says he's 'appalled' PC Harper's killers could be released early - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions Oxford Officer who led PC Harper investigation 'appalled' killers could be released early Image source, PA Media Image caption, Albert Bowers (left) and Jessie Cole (centre) seen leaving court in 2019 are eligible to be freed under the early release scheme By Helena Wilkinson News correspondent Published 7 August 2026, 06:00 BST Updated 6 hours ago The senior investigating officer in the PC Andrew Harper case has told BBC Breakfast he is "appalled" that two of the killers will become eligible for early release. PC Harper, 28, from Wallingford, Oxfordshire, died from catastrophic injuries in 2019 when he was dragged behind the getaway car of three teenagers who had fled the scene of a quad bike theft. Two of his killers – Jessie Cole and Albert Bowers – will be eligible for early release next year under revised government plans to tackle prison overcrowding. Stuart Blaik, who investigated the killing, said it was "particularly hard to understand" their case for early release and said police officers were shocked at the prospect. PC Harper's widow, Lissie Harper, has been among a growing number calling for Cole and Bowers to be denied early release from prison. Defence Secretary Wes Streeting told the BBC on Friday that early release is "not okay" - adding that no government should have been put in the position of having to deal with limited prison capacity. Figure caption, Stuart Blaik says it 'doesn't make any sense' that two of PC Harper's killers will become eligible for early release Speaking to BBC Breakfast on Friday, former Det Sup Blaik, who led the Thames Valley Police investigation, pointed to remarks by the judge who sentenced PC Harper's killers. Mr Justice Edis referred to their case of manslaughter as being "very close to a case of murder in its seriousness". The former officer called for prisoners who were judged to have had a high level of culpability for a manslaughter offence to be excluded from the scheme. Allowing them to walk free would "undermine" the judicial process and impact police morale, Blaik said, before urging the government to have a "long, hard think" about the case. The former Det Sup left Thames Valley Police in 2023. This is the first time he has publicly shared his views on the issue. Streeting said the government is taking the issue "extremely seriously". "We should never have been put in a position where prisons across the country were so full-to-bursting that any government, let alone this government, had to contemplate the early release of people from serious convictions that have led to being in prison in the first place. "We're not pretending this is okay." He pointed to "strong controls" and supervision that will be in place for people released into the community and added that the government is "determined" to build more prison places and is looking carefully into the exemptions under the scheme. In an earlier statement given exclusively to BBC Breakfast, former Det Sup Blaik said "like many people across the country" he was "deeply concerned and appalled" by the prospect of Bowers and Cole being considered for early release. He said that because the "death of Andrew was such a serious and tragic case", Bowers and Coles should "not be afforded the opportunity" to be released early. "Neither of them showed any remorse during their time in police custody or during their subsequent trial. "I hope the Government takes account of the strength of public feeling on this issue, which has been both clear and widespread," he added. Under revised plans announced by the government on Monday, prisoners who have committed rape, grooming, and serious child sex offences will be excluded from an early release scheme for England and Wales. But those guilty of manslaughter may still be eligible. An average of 150 people a year are sentenced at crown court for manslaughter with an average term of nine years. That means that in any given year there are hundreds of these offenders in jail. If they were all kept in, that would eat into the available spare beds - a number that is declining despite the massive prison-building programme. If the government were to try to differentiate between different types of manslaughter offenders based on the specific nature of the crime they committed, that could be legally complex to deliver - and may in turn face serious legal challenges from prisoners who find their release dates changed. Bowers and Cole were sentenced to 13 years for the manslaughter of PC Harper. They will become eligible for release from prison after serving half of their sentences under the plans, instead of two-thirds. The driver of the getaway car, Henry Long, was jailed for 16 years for the same offence. But Long will not be eligible. Image source, PA Media Image caption, PC Harper married Lissie just four weeks before he was killed PC Harper and Lissie had been married for just a month when he was killed in the line of duty. On Thursday, the police officer's widow said she "will not give up" and hoped people would share a petition calling for his killers to be denied early release from prison. She said: "Hopefully we can make the current government come to their senses and realise we cannot put people like this back on our streets. "Justice should mean justice and serving the sentence given." Thames Valley Police Federation chair Aileen O'Connor began the petition this week. "My ask is that the prime minister, the home secretary and everybody else in government gets on the right side of this and does the right thing and makes the changes that keep the two killers behind bars," she said. "We have been working closely with Chief Constable Jason Hogg and Police and Crime Commissioner Matthew Barber from the outset on this. "We are all united in our frustration and dismay at the government's ridiculous plans when it comes to releasing from prison early the killers of police officers." The government said it was trying to avoid running out of prison spaces as soon as October this year. The justice secretary Alex Norris previously said about 1,000 prisoners would now not be released early following the revision to the scheme. "If we drew it any wider we would have a prison capacity crisis," said Norris. Prisoners released on licence, he said, would be subject to "very significant controls on their lives" and victims would be consulted. Get our flagship newsletter with all the headlines you need to start the day. Sign up here. Related topics PC Andrew Harper death retrial More on this story 'Harper's Law' bill receives Royal Assent Published 29 April 2022 Justice secretary apologises to families affected by early release scheme Published 3 days ago PC Harper widow 'won't give up' early release fight Published 1 day ago The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:28 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update. 00:00:28, play video 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update 2:01 Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape. 00:02:01, play video Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape 1:02 Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter. 00:01:02, play video Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter 1:17 What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:17, play video What we know about the Thailand school shooting 0:48 Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 00:00:48, play video Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 0:52 Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 00:00:52, play video Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 0:31 The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 00:00:31, play video The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 0:43 An earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan. 00:00:43, play video An earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan 0:33 Moment raiders drive car into service station. 00:00:33, play video Moment raiders drive car into service station 1:11 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 00:01:11, play video 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 0:39 How much rain will end the drought? 00:00:39, play video How much rain will end the drought? 0:24 Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol. 00:00:24, play video Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol 1:43 Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment. 00:01:43, play video Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment 0:44 Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup. 00:00:44, play video Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup 1:00 What is 'food noise'? 00:01:00, play video What is 'food noise'? 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:00 What do people want from Argos? 00:01:00, play video What do people want from Argos? 0:58 Meet Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? Top stories Police failings revealed as sex offender left free to murder and attack women Published 51 minutes ago Serial sex offender guilty of double murder and rape Published 2 hours ago Counter-terror police reopen attempted burglary probe as part of Widdecombe inquiry Published 1 hour ago More to explore Argos is getting a makeover - but can it attract new shoppers? Lauryn Hill and Wyclef ‘in an amazing place’ as fans hope for new Fugees album after 30 years How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man ‘We have nowhere to return to’: How Russia is seizing homes in occupied Ukraine First OpenAI, now Meta - why do AI hacks keep happening? The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC With great power comes great responsibility She's not a bad girl anymore, wink wink wink wink Can a test tell you what's living inside your gut? How much discipline is too much in school? Most read 1 Counter-terror police reopen attempted burglary probe as part of Widdecombe inquiry 2 Obesity rates have doubled in England since 1993 - what's going on? 3 Police failings revealed as sex offender left free to murder and attack women 4 US appeals court halts Trump ballroom project paving way for Supreme Court showdown 5 Spain to impose border controls against Italy as row over Ceuta migrant influx intensifies 6 Hunter Biden tells BBC his pardon was 'not good' for America or his father's legacy 7 Serial sex offender guilty of double murder and rape 8 Madonna and Blur producer William Orbit dies aged 69 9 Why there's a row about standing up while drinking in central London 10 'Like a bus seat back in the day' - new Wales kit leaves fans divided BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.