Winner of Florida python hunting contest nabs 96 snakes: ‘I was on a mission’ | Florida | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Environment Climate crisis Wildlife Energy Pollution Green light Tom Rahill holding a Florida-native water snake as he searches for Burmese pythons in August 2022. Photograph: Chandan Khanna/AFP/Getty Images View image in fullscreen Tom Rahill holding a Florida-native water snake as he searches for Burmese pythons in August 2022. Photograph: Chandan Khanna/AFP/Getty Images Florida Winner of Florida python hunting contest nabs 96 snakes: ‘I was on a mission’ Burmese pythons are an invasive species in the Everglades, and the challenge is part of initiative to remove them Lucy Campbell Wed 5 Aug 2026 19.50 EDT Last modified on Wed 5 Aug 2026 19.58 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google The winner of this year’s annual Florida Python Challenge hunted down and eliminated 96 invasive Burmese pythons from the Everglades national park, as part of an initiative to remove hundreds of the snakes from the area every year. The challenge invites hunters to participate in 10 days of capturing and humanely euthanizing as many of the invasive snakes as possible across eight designated hunting locations, with the winner taking home a cash prize of $10,000. The event is hosted by Florida fish, wildlife and conservation (FWC), the south Florida water management district, the National Park Service and others. This year’s competition drew 907 participants from 30 US states, as well as Canada and Vietnam. The winner, Tom Rahill, harvested 96 Burmese pythons, all from the Everglades. A python hunter by trade, Rahill founded an organization called SwampApes in Broward county that takes veterans suffering from PTSD on python hunts in Florida’s wetlands. Far-right Republican accused of stiffing student debate champion of $8,000 Read more In comments reported by Naples Daily News , Rahill told an FWC meeting in Panama City on Wednesday: “I was on a mission to get one of our veterans a big snake. I did it. And we wrestled this thing … The veteran was just over the moon.” Once that was achieved, he said he went deeper into the Everglades, where he found the 96 snakes. Over the course of 10 days in July, 280 snakes in total were removed. Before the competition began, 1,400 pythons had been taken out this year. The challenge also awards several other cash prizes, including $1,000 for the longest python killed, which this year went to Rahm Levinson, who hunted a snake measuring 16ft 5in. Burmese pythons are native to south-east Asia, and have wreaked havoc since they were first found in the Everglades ecosystem in the 1990s, consuming resources and wiping out a significant portion of the area’s native wildlife. The apex predators are incredibly hard to detect, contributing to the population ballooning to a number that conservative estimates put in the tens of thousands. Females can lay dozens of eggs, sometimes up to 100 annually, and although many hatchlings do not survive to adulthood, there are fears the pythons are reproducing faster than they can be caught. The annual challenge is therefore now held during the summer hatching season in a bid to boost the number captured. Aimed at raising public awareness of invasive species, and getting the public involved in conservation and efforts to protect the Everglades ecosystem by controlling the number of Burmese pythons, the event has seen more than 1,600 of the snakes removed from the area since 2017. Combined with FWC contractors, who hunt the reptiles year-round, that figure rises to more than 19,000 snakes removed since 2017. Sarah Funck, program coordinator at the FWC, told Wednesday’s meeting that there is no “silver bullet” to solve Florida’s python invasion, but stressed that the elimination of just one python “is a win for Florida’s native wildlife”. Explore more on these topics Florida Snakes Reptiles Wildlife Animals Conservation news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed Environment Climate crisis Wildlife Energy Pollution Green light News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)