Cyclospora outbreak: First two deaths reported in Michigan Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Food & Beverage Michigan confirms first two deaths in cyclospora outbreak Published Mon, Aug 3 2026 1:02 PM EDT Updated Mon, Aug 3 2026 2:32 PM EDT Amelia Lucas @Thxamelian WATCH LIVE Key Points Michigan health authorities said that two people have died from the ongoing cyclospora outbreak. The Michigan Health Department said that both individuals had underlying health conditions. The foodborne illness outbreak has sickened thousands across the U.S. In this article YUM Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Wildpixel | Istock | Getty Images Michigan health authorities on Monday reported the first two deaths from the ongoing cyclospora outbreak. The Michigan Health Department said that both individuals had "significant underlying health conditions" that may have been affected by cyclosporiasis and dehydration, citing medical records. Michigan health officials said that cyclosporiasis is generally not considered life threatening, and it is unusual for fatalities to occur in the U.S. Michigan has reported 11,234 cases and 193 hospitalizations tied to the outbreak. Based on reported cases, the state seems to be the hardest hit by the outbreak, and its number of reported cases has outpaced those reported by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The CDC has received more than 6,700 laboratory-confirmed cases since May 1, according to the agency. That count does not include cases that have not been confirmed by a laboratory, which includes many reported by Michigan and Ohio, among other states. The CDC has been updating its case count on a weekly basis, while Michigan has been reporting every weekday. In mid-July, Taylor Farms recalled iceberg lettuce from central Mexico that was believed to be the source of the outbreak. The recall included bagged salads sold in grocery stores and served in restaurants , including Yum Brands' Taco Bell. Cyclospora, a waterborne parasite, is often found on fresh produce, like iceberg lettuce, herbs and raspberries. Outbreaks are more common during the summer, although the ongoing outbreak is the worst in recent history. The Food and Drug Administration is also investigating at least one more outbreak of cyclosporiasis. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by