‘Did you send that report?’ The Icac bombshell that came late for Damien Tudehope | Independent Commission Against Corruption | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters Damien Tudehope (right) has not been named as a person of interest in Operation Rosny but has stood down as shadow attorney general. Photograph: Bianca de Marchi/AAP View image in fullscreen Damien Tudehope (right) has not been named as a person of interest in Operation Rosny but has stood down as shadow attorney general. Photograph: Bianca de Marchi/AAP Independent Commission Against Corruption Analysis ‘Did you send that report?’ The Icac bombshell that came late for Damien Tudehope Anne Davies The former Liberal finance minister was questioned by Icac counsel assisting, Peggy Dwyer, on Tuesday Follow our Australia news live blog for latest updates Get our breaking news email , free app or daily news podcast Tue 4 Aug 2026 11.00 EDT Last modified on Tue 4 Aug 2026 17.50 EDT Share The bombshell came in the last five minutes of former finance minister and rightwing powerbroker Damien Tudehope’s examination before the Independent Commission Against Corruption . At 3.30pm on Tuesday, Tudehope was shown an email which he sent in February 2023, attaching a leaked draft parliamentary report into branch stacking in the Hills area by the Reformers, the shadowy group at the centre of Icac’s Operation Rosny. It has probably imperilled his parliamentary career. “Would you regard yourself … as being bound by keeping it confidential?” asked counsel assisting, Peggy Dwyer, SC. Tudehope visibly tensed. “Did you send that report in draft to Mr Greenwood?” she asked, showing him the email. “It appears that I did,” Tudehope replied quietly. Jeremy Greenwood is one of the group of conservative Catholic men who set up the Reformers, recruiting like-minded conservatives to the Liberal party in order to take over branches from the moderate and centre-right factions. In 2023, during the parliamentary inquiry, the key Reformers and associates – Christian Ellis, the then premier’s brothers Jean-Claude Perrottet and Charles Perrottet, and Greenwood – had left NSW to avoid being called to the parliamentary inquiry. NSW Liberal admits to leaking confidential report to young conservative powerbrokers, inquiry hears Read more Tudehope told Icac he had had a conversation with the premier, Dom Perrottet, who said he knew his brother had gone to Fiji. Leaking a draft parliamentary report is a serious breach of parliamentary rules and contempt of parliament. It may even constitute corrupt conduct depending on the motivation of the leak. Tudehope has not been named as a person of interest in Operation Rosny but has stood down as shadow attorney general. Wednesday’s evidence, however, raised questions of just how tightly Tudehope was tied into the activities of the Reformers and the donations they are alleged to have taken to fund their branch takeover activities. The day started well enough. A politician for 20 years, Tudehope was happy to talk expansively about his alignment with the Reformers’ causes on conservative social issues. Sign up for the Breaking News Australia email He’d been happy to be a speaker at events advocating for safe schools and opposing gender fluidity and marriage equality. But when it came to questions about whether funds flowing into the Reformers were political in nature, the lawyer in Tudehope emerged. “I don’t necessarily accept the premise that every event where someone signs up to a party as a result of attending the event is necessarily a contribution for the benefit of a party, and I think I identified to you that there are people who may sign up to a party to provide no benefit to a party,” Tudehope said. “So, to the extent that you identify for the benefit of a party, I think that’s a very moot point about the definition of a benefit to the Liberal party.” Dwyer wasn’t letting him off the hook so easily. In painstaking detail, she ran him through text messages and WhatsApp groups that she alleged showed knowledge of the secret money trail. Tudehope’s close friend and former law partner Michael O’Hara, who became a successful hotelier, became a major donor to the Reformers, giving $165,000 to a number of entities after introductions at a function at Tudehope’s home where the News Corp columnist Miranda Devine was the speaker. Tudehope agreed he might have introduced Ellis to O’Hara, but denied he had encouraged illegal donations. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | When needed Sign up to Breaking News Australia Get the most important news as it breaks Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion “If you think that I would expose a friend of mine to that level of scrutiny that he was exposed to, 83 years of age with stage three/four cancer, you think that I would have done that in circumstances where I knew that he would be a prohibited donor for the purposes of the Electoral Funding Act, not on your life!” he said. Under sustained questioning, Tudehope agreed that using invoices to public relations firms to channel payments was “concealment” as the commissioner, Fabian Gleeson, phrased it. The other major backer of the Reformers was Catholic Schools NSW and here Tudehope has several connections. He was friends with the CEO, Dallas McInerney, also a powerful key figure in the right, while his son James worked in communications at Catholic Schools NSW. Icac heard on Wednesday that at a Sunday lunch, James Tudehope told his father he was being pressured to pay an invoice from Ellis. He was “very agitated” because he didn’t think they were getting value for money, Damien Tudehope said. Tudehope said he recommended his son take it up with McInerney, his boss. In Dwyer’s opening address we learned that Ellis, who has moved to London and declined to appear, had used his public relations firm, Beckington, to take donations for Reformer work. Tudehope was also an employer of key Reformers in his ministerial office. In August 2019, the federal member for Berowra, Julian Leeser, who was unaligned to a faction, went public with his concerns about the branch stacking in the Hills in the Sydney Morning Herald. Icac heard that Ellis had said publicly at a Reformers event that “Leeser was a lefty and had to go”, drawing the ire of several in the party. Dwyer tabled an article by Tom Rabe written in 2019 about the factional war and the involvement of two of the Reformers, Ellis and Jean-Claude Perrottet, who were employed in Tudehope’s office. He suggested Liberals were concerned the pair spent most of their time on branch stacking. By October 2019, Tudehope’s office let Ellis go, concerned about the adverse publicity his activities were drawing. Tudehope said it was the chief of staff who made the call. By 2020, the heat on the Reformers was increasing. Tudehope was on Tuesday shown messages from 2020 between members of the Reformers in which they said MPs “were getting scared about ICAC,” and that “Scott and Damien are afraid”. Tudehope denied knowing what they were about. But by the end of the day, he could have little doubt he now had reasons to fear Icac. Explore more on these topics Independent Commission Against Corruption Liberal party New South Wales Sydney Australian politics analysis Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story NSW Liberal admits to leaking confidential report to young conservative powerbrokers, inquiry hears 15h ago Australian town defends its ‘long-valued and admired’ statue of an enslaved African American child 7h ago Public urged to avoid hospital unless ‘life might be in danger’ after record day for Sydney emergency departments 17h ago Liberal power brokers left phones in car to avoid tracing before discussing corruption probe, Icac hears 2d ago Charity cyclist Bob Montgomery, 82, dies one day after 5,200km ride across Australia 17h ago ‘Warring kingdoms’: cofounder of religious Reformers compares NSW Liberal party factionalism to Braveheart 6d ago Most Sydney road tolls to keep rising after Transurban accused of blocking reforms 1d ago Icac hits paydirt as Reformers’ ‘shit sheets’ are given a very public airing 6d ago Alleged illegal donations by Catholic Schools NSW to Liberals raise questions over use of taxpayer funds 15 Jul 2026 Icac revelations have left Angus Taylor’s colleagues anxious – and his factional enemies angry 5d ago Most viewed Most viewed Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)