Why Ford believes a 10.2% July U.S. sales decline was a 'good' month Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Autos Why Ford believes its 10.2% July U.S. sales decline was still a 'good' month Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 10:42 AM EDT Updated Tue, Aug 4 2026 12:04 PM EDT Michael Wayland @MikeWayland WATCH LIVE Key Points Despite reporting a 10.2% decline in its July U.S. vehicle sales Tuesday, Ford said it was a "good sales month." Ford said the steep decline was "by design" as the Detroit automaker phased out two vehicles and lowered its daily rental fleet business. Planned or not, the decline last month adds to a lackluster sales year for the automaker, with results off 9.7% compared with 2025. In this article F Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Ford Motor vehicles are displayed for sale at the Leif Johnson Ford dealership on June 30, 2026, in Austin, Texas. Brandon Bell | Getty Images DETROIT — Despite reporting a 10.2% decline in its July U.S. vehicle sales Tuesday, Ford Motor is touting the results as a "good sales month." That's according to Rob Kaffl, Ford's director of U.S. sales, who said the steep decline from the previous year was "by design," as the Detroit automaker phased out two vehicles and lowered its daily rental fleet business. "July was a good sales month for a number of reasons. Our July results reflect a strategy that is working exactly as planned: we've intentionally been sunsetting select models and pulled back on low-margin rental fleet volume to make room for an onslaught of new-product introductions by the end of the decade," Kaffl said in an emailed statement. Many times, automakers do not cancel products — like Ford has done with its Ford Escape and Lincoln Corsair — until closer to production of newer models. Or they build up inventories to assist sales during the changeover in production for new vehicles. Kaffl said the company prioritized retail sales of its F-Series pickup trucks as the automaker continues to recover production after two fires last year at a major aluminum supplier. The company said rental sales, which typically are less profitable, were reduced by 96% compared with a year earlier. Read more Are Americans ready to embrace tiny 'cars'? These companies think so Ford raises guidance after Q2 earnings beat, says F-Series recovery is on track As Honda CR-V leads U.S. sales, automaker teases new American-built pickup truck Without such actions, Ford contends its sales would be down less than 1%, slightly better than an estimated 2% fall for the overall industry compared with July 2025. Planned or not, the decline last month adds to a lackluster sales year for the automaker following the troubled F-Series production as well as a pullback in all-electric vehicle sales. Ford's sales year to date through July are down 9.7%. Ford's U.S. sales through June were already off 9.6% from a year earlier. That compares with an estimated 2.4% sales decline for the overall industry through the first half of the year, which doesn't include July, according to the most recent data from Cox Automotive's Kelley Blue Book. Higher prices and consumer economic concerns are weighing on the overall auto industry, which Cox and other forecasters expect to be off about 3% compared with last year, to 15.8 million new vehicles sold. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by