Christopher Phillips kept mum's body in dining room freezer in Porthcawl for years 'couldn't let her go' - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Wales Wales Politics Wales Business North West North East Mid South West South East Cymru Local News Son who kept mum's body in freezer for years collected £78k of her benefits Figure caption, When police went to the house, Christopher Phillips said his mother had moved to London and did not want to undergo medical tests By Colette Hume , Reporting from Merthyr Tydfil Crown Court and Oliver Slow , BBC Wales Published 3 August 2026 A man who kept his dead mother in a chest freezer in the living room of the family home for nearly three years and continued to collect her pension and benefits has been sentenced to two years and four months. Christopher Phillips, 60, was arrested after the body of Sylvia Phillips, 89, was found by officers in February at Poplar Crescent, Porthcawl, Bridgend county. She had died in March 2023. Phillips had told doctors he "did not want to let her go" and "wanted more time" after her death. Sylvia Phillips was discovered wrapped in a leopard print silk blanket, with yellow and pink roses placed on her body, as well as a birthday card signed from him and the family dog Tina. Image source, South Wales Police Image caption, Christopher Phillips was arrested after his mother's body was found in the family's home "To Mum, from Christopher and Tina," the card read. Phillips admitted three offences including failing to lawfully and decently bury his mother and continuing to claim her pension and benefits including housing benefits and winter fuel allowances. Merthyr Tydfil Crown Court heard Phillips had been adopted by Sylvia Phillips at the age of two, was "exceptionally close" to her and was her sole carer. The day after she died on 8 March 2023 her son held her in his arms and told her he would look after her, the court was told. Two days after her death, Phillips bought a chest freezer from AO.com, placing it in the dining room of the semi-detached home. She remained there until her body was discovered by police who carried out a welfare check requested by her GP. The court was told that the local medical practice had made repeated attempts to contact her but were denied access by her son. When police went to the house, Phillips said his mother had moved to London and did not want to undergo medical tests. The court heard officers became suspicious, with Phillips seen trembling and fidgeting. He ran upstairs and later could be heard telling a girlfriend on the phone that the "police are going to arrest me, you've got the will". Officers who opened the freezer found that the 89-year-old was completely frozen and it was some time before a post-mortem was able to be carried out. The pathologist has been unable to ascertain a cause of death, but there were not thought to be suspicious circumstances. Image caption, Sylvia Phillips' body was found in the property in Porthcawl in February The court heard Phillips moved downstairs to sleep next to his mother's body. At times he would open the freezer and hold her hand. Sylvia Phillips had 26 appointments with her local GP practice in 2021, and six in 2022, after which there was no further contact. The court heard she was last seen in A&E on 24 September 2022 and her local GP made a house call on 26 September but her son continued to pick up her prescriptions. Sylvia Phillips was invited to a review by the practice, but her son said she would not come to the surgery and she did not need the blood tests. Christopher Phillips received a total of £78,190.92 in state pension, pensions credit, attendance allowance, winter fuel payments, cost-of-living payments and housing benefit payments, which would have ceased had the death been reported. He had been her primary carer since 2008, and the court heard he had resigned from his job in late 2022 when her health declined further. The pair were described as "somewhat isolated". Ruth Smith, defending, said Phillips had told police: "I basically didn't want to let her go." She added: "He described talking to her as if she was still alive… Sitting next to her, talking to her about television programmes, Coronation Street, the horse racing, just as they always did," she said, adding that he was a "vulnerable individual". Phillips sobbed in the dock as Smith said her client was "extremely close to his mother" and was in "extreme grief" following her death. She said he showed a "lack of acceptance" about her passing and "had almost created a false narrative that she was still alive". Sentencing Phillips to two years and four months - of which he will spend 40% in custody and the rest on licence - Judge Lloyd-Clarke said he had "deliberately concealed" his mother's death and "took steps to give the impression that she was still alive". "You continued to collect her prescription and lied to medical professionals and eventually the police," Lloyd-Clarke added. "Rather than notify the authorities and make arrangements for her lawful burial, you purchased a chest freezer on March 10th and concealed her body within it," she said. Lloyd-Clarke added that a timescale for confiscation proceedings would follow. Related topics Wales Porthcawl More top stories I didn't know I'd been hosting a parasite for years - until the most intense pain of my life Published 3 August River path balaclava gang target children on bikes and police officers Published 2 August My late grandparents are frozen in time on Google Maps - it's my favourite place on the internet Published 3 August The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:34 Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents. 00:00:34, play video Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents 1:05 What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident. 00:01:05, play video What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident 0:29 How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 00:00:29, play video How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 1:27 Are older and younger generations in conflict? 00:01:27, play video Are older and younger generations in conflict? 1:18 Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 00:01:18, play video Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 0:48 Model's photos used to catfish women. 00:00:48, play video Model's photos used to catfish women 1:29 The inventor who refused to take no for an answer. 00:01:29, play video The inventor who refused to take no for an answer 1:07 How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 00:01:07, play video How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 1:01 E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths. 00:01:01, play video E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths 1:07 NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England. 00:01:07, play video NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England 0:52 Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion. 00:00:52, play video Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion 0:59 Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation. 00:00:59, play video Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation 0:35 Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend. 00:00:35, play video Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend 1:25 Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings. 00:01:25, play video Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings 0:55 Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 00:00:55, play video Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 0:48 Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances. 00:00:48, play video Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances 1:16 GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview. 00:01:16, play video GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview 1:07 What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 00:01:07, play video What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 0:58 '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 00:00:58, play video '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 0:29 Where does salmonella get its name? 00:00:29, play video Where does salmonella get its name? Top stories Live . Rescue efforts enter fifth day on Nepal-Tibet border with more than 2,400 missing after flash flood 1277 viewing 1.3k viewing At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot Published 3 hours ago Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor Published 7 hours ago More to explore Dolly Parton's dad couldn't read - it inspired her to send books to millions of children Sweetcorn ice creams and pastries: The latest 'swavoury' trend taking over your feed How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works We helped create UK emergency alert system - but question how government is using it Hypermobility - the little-known 'bendy disease' that causes pain and fatigue Strong winds and thunderstorms kick off the bank holiday weekend 'I thought diet clubs weren't for men' Embroidery on display as town celebrates conqueror Royal Watch: Get the latest royal stories and analysis with Sean Coughlan’s weekly newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Low-key noughties sitcom starring Robert Webb and Paula Wilcox Keith Richards recalls how he wrote the iconic 'Satisfaction' An unlikely gang set out to catch a killer who shattered rural peace Did Emily ruin Paris? Most read 1 Rescue to continue overnight for 'in distress' vessel carrying five in the Channel 2 Sarah Ferguson expected back in the UK 'shortly', source says 3 Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor 4 I've been to Gamescom six times - here's what excited me this year 5 'Healey eyes banks and oil tax' and 'X Factor comeback' 6 Norway's new king remembers 'my dear father' in first speech 7 How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works 8 They fell in love - then had to check they weren't brother and sister 9 Man dies after train hits van on crossing 10 At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.