Disney, TikTok strike deal to let creators use Disney characters in videos - ABC News ABC News Live Video Local News Shows Good Morning America ShopGMA Interest Successfully Added We'll notify you here with news about Turn on desktop notifications for breaking stories about interest? Off On Stream on Culture Disney, TikTok strike deal to let creators use Disney characters in videos 0:51 Sneak peek of new documentary 'Disney Worldbuilders' Thomas Fuller/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images By Mason Leib August 5, 2026, 1:28 PM The Walt Disney Company and TikTok announced a brand-new deal on Wednesday, allowing fans to create videos using Disney characters. The new deal will give social media creators on TikTok access to "memorable scenes and moments from Disney movies and shows" to create content, according to a release . The content, which will live on TikTok and Verts -- the new Disney+ vertical video feed -- will feature "characters and stories from across Disney's brands including Pixar, Marvel, 'Star Wars,' FX and more." Related See how Pixar, Marvel worlds and more come to life at Disney parks "TikTok will offer their creators access to assets related to hundreds of films and series from Disney's vast library of enduring franchises and beloved IP," the release read. "Fans will enjoy a shared Disney experience with TikTok videos that will be refreshed regularly to engage subscribers more deeply in timely fan conversations, building stronger communities, and ultimately, helping them engage with more story formats across Disney+." According to Disney, the new agreement will launch in the U.S. in the coming months, "with the intention of other markets to follow." The Disney Plus logo is seen displayed on a smartphone screen. Thomas Fuller/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images Creators who opt into the program will see their short-form content featured on both TikTok and Verts on Disney+. Asad Ayaz, chief marketing and brand officer at The Walt Disney Company, celebrated fans' ability to tell stories in a statement included in Wednesday's release. Popular Reads Lionel Richie checks himself into hospital out of abundance of caution: Source 1 day ago At least 2 dead in Grand Canyon flash flooding as urgent search for missing continues 1 day ago Dolly Parton worked ‘until the day she died,’ manager says Aug 26 "The best storytellers are fans first," Ayaz said. "That has always been true at Disney, and today, fans are celebrating our stories in entirely new ways. This collaboration creates a new bridge between the stories we tell and the creativity they inspire, giving creators a bigger stage to share what they've made, and audiences more to discover on Disney+ every day." Related Disney, Champion debut new collection pairing NFL teams with Disney characters Dawn Yang, TikTok's global head of entertainment, added that the deal brings "the authentic creator expression of the TikTok community to Disney+." "Creators are at the heart of everything we do at TikTok," Yang said in a statement included in the release. "Their creativity extends the life of films and shows into conversations that fans discover and share." Wednesday's release also highlighted the Disney Creator Ambassador Program, a joint program run by Disney and TikTok, through which Disney said it would "enable best-in-class creators to unlock special rewards and provide them with increased visibility, access to exclusive events and career development pathways." "This tiered program reflects Disney's commitment to building relationships with the next generation of creative talent in partnership with TikTok, who has a unique attention and care for its creator community," the company said. The Walt Disney Co. is the parent company of ABC News. Related Topics Disney TikTok Sponsored Content by Taboola Popular Reads Lionel Richie checks himself into hospital out of abundance of caution: Source 1 day ago Dolly Parton worked ‘until the day she died,’ manager says Aug 26 At least 2 dead in Grand Canyon flash flooding as urgent search for missing continues 1 day ago Jury finds Duane Davis guilty in murder of Tupac Shakur 1 day ago ABC News Live 24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events ABC News Network Privacy Policy Your US State Privacy Rights Children's Online Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads About Nielsen Measurement Terms of Use Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Contact Us © 2026 ABC News