Abdul El-Sayed and Haley Stevens in tight contest as Michigan counts Democratic Senate primary votes - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Michigan Senate Primary World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War Michigan Senate Primary World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Politics Abdul El-Sayed and Haley Stevens in tight contest as Michigan counts Democratic Senate primary votes By Joe Walsh Joe Walsh Senior Editor, Politics Joe Walsh is a senior editor for digital politics at CBS News. Joe previously covered breaking news for Forbes and local news in Boston. Read Full Bio Joe Walsh Updated on: August 5, 2026 / 9:30 AM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Update: Abdul El-Sayed is projected to win the Michigan Democratic Senate primary over Haley Stevens. Read the latest here . Our earlier story is below. Tuesday's Michigan Democratic Senate primary race remains unsettled, with progressive Abdul El-Sayed holding onto a narrow lead over moderate Haley Stevens with votes still being counted. CBS News was describing the race overnight Wednesday as leaning toward El-Sayed. The race between the progressive former health official and Stevens, a moderate congresswomen, has served as an increasingly bitter proxy fight between the national Democratic Party's ideological factions. The winner of the primary will face off against Republican Rep. Mike Rogers in November. The race — which was left open by Democratic Sen. Gary Peters' decision to retire — could prove pivotal in determining which party controls the U.S. Senate next year. With more than 95% of the statewide vote counted, El-Sayed led by double-digit margins in Kent County, home to Grand Rapids, and Washtenaw County, home to Ann Arbor and the University of Michigan. He also had leads in Kalamazoo County and Ingham County, where most of the state capital of Lansing is located. Stevens, meanwhile, has an edge in the state's most populous county, Wayne County, which is home to Detroit and many of its suburbs. She also leads in neighboring suburban Oakland County and Macomb County, as well as Genesee County, home to Flint. Both candidates addressed supporters early Wednesday morning, expressing optimism while cautioning that they didn't expect to know the winner for a while. El-Sayed celebrated his statewide lead and said "we are on track to vastly outvote the historical numbers that we should have expected." Stevens said "we are still waiting on results" but "I am feeling good," pointing to large numbers of uncounted votes in Detroit. The Democratic primary turned into a two-candidate contest after state Sen. Mallory McMorrow suspended her campaign last month — leaving the four-term House member Stevens to face off against the physician and El-Sayed, the former Wayne County health director. El-Sayed — who ran for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination in 2018 — has the backing of national progressives like independent Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York. Stevens was recruited into the Senate race by Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and was endorsed by Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer. The race has grown contentious . El-Sayed has criticized the wave of outside funding that has flowed into the state to support Stevens, including from groups linked to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, while Stevens has cast El-Sayed as a "celebrity candidate." The U.S.-Israel relationship has been a near-constant theme, with El-Sayed strongly criticizing U.S. aid to Israel, while Stevens backs the two countries' alliance . The two candidates have also focused on cost-of-living issues, but have offered differing visions. Stevens told CBS News senior White House and political correspondent Ed O'Keefe in an interview Monday: "I'm Michigan's workhorse. That's what I want to be. My opponent, he's already got his website for president." El-Sayed told O'Keefe he believes Michigan voters — who backed President Trump in two out of the last three presidential races — are "sick and tired of the establishment bought off by corporations on both sides of the political aisle." 2026 Midterm Elections More Progressive Abdul El-Sayed projected to win Michigan Democratic Senate primary Abdul El-Sayed says "there's a lot of healing to do" after Senate primary Rep. Chuck Edwards drops reelection bid after sexual harassment allegations House Democrats targeting 12 new GOP districts, including Lauren Boebert's seat Democratic Rep. Gluesenkamp Perez and Trump-backed Republican advance in Washington primary Go deeper with The Free Press Roy Cooper, Sherrod Brown, and the Road to Democratic Victory The Black Voters Who Could Decide the Country’s Biggest Democratic Primary In: Michigan Michigan Primary © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Michigan awaits key primary results Democratic, Republican strategists on how the Michigan primary could impact the 2026 elections 06:21 Democratic, Republican strategists on how the Michigan primary could impact the 2026 elections (06:21) Democratic Rep. Gluesenkamp Perez and Trump-backed Republican advance in Washington primary Rick Brattin wins Republican primary for Missouri seat redrawn to favor GOP Ollivant projected to win GOP primary in battleground Virginia district Roy Cooper, Sherrod Brown, and the Road to Democratic Victory Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue