Michael Burry bets against rally: 'We are near a major top' Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Markets Michael Burry bets against rally: 'We are near a major top, and possible a 1987-type fall' Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 4:39 PM EDT Updated 34 Min Ago Yun Li @YunLi626 WATCH LIVE Key Points "I continue to believe it is possible we are near a major top, and possible a 1987-type fall," Burry said in a Tuesday Substack post. The S&P 500 jumped 1.9% Tuesday to its first record close since June, buoyed by stronger-than-expected corporate earnings and another drop in oil prices. In this article .SPX .IXIC SOXX Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Michael Burry attends "The Big Short" New York premiere at the Ziegfeld Theater in New York, Nov. 23, 2015. Andrew Toth | Filmmagic | Getty Images Michael Burry of "The Big Short" fame is sticking with his bearish wagers even as the S&P 500 surges to a record high, warning that the rally could still end in a sharp sell-off reminiscent of the 1987 stock-market crash. "I continue to believe it is possible we are near a major top, and possible a 1987-type fall, but the S&P 500 making new highs likely will bring new money into the market," Burry said in a Tuesday Substack post. The S&P 500 jumped 1.9% Tuesday to its first record close since June, buoyed by stronger-than-expected corporate earnings and another drop in oil prices as hopes grew that the Strait of Hormuz would reopen to maritime traffic. The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite soared 2.7%, extending its gain in just the first two days of the week to nearly 5%. Burry has been among Wall Street's most outspoken skeptics of the artificial intelligence boom, arguing that demand for AI infrastructure is being fueled by financing arrangements that may prove unsustainable. He said the market's advance is creating a self-reinforcing cycle, with declining volatility encouraging systematic investors to increase exposure. "Remember, the market going up on falling volatility forces vol-targeting funds to leverage up, and brings leverage from other momentum strategies into play," he wrote. In the face of the rally, Burry said he continues to hold short positions in the iShares Semiconductor ETF (SOXX) , Micron , Nvidia , Caterpillar , Palantir , Tesla and Applied Materials . The investor said he remains confident in his long-term outlook for those positions, though he added that he would cut his losses if the trades moved decisively against him. All of the positions remain profitable except for his bet against Nvidia, he said. "Again, shorting is not for everyone," Burry wrote. "I must short. Most should not." Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by