Police chief considers legal action over PC Harper killers' early release - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat UK England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Isle of Man Guernsey Jersey Local News Police chief considers joining legal action over PC Harper killers' early release Image source, PA Media Image caption, Police officer Andrew Harper suffered fatal injuries while on duty in 2019 By Adam Goldsmith Published 5 August 2026, 10:02 BST Updated 5 hours ago The chief constable of Thames Valley Police says he will consider joining legal action to block the release of two of PC Andrew Harper's killers. Chief Constable Jason Hogg told the BBC he was in talks with the Police Federation of England and Wales over the matter, adding public opinion on their potential release was "overwhelming". PC Harper, who served with Thames Valley, was killed in 2019 when he was dragged by a car down a country road as three teenagers fled the scene of a quad bike theft in Berkshire. The two passengers in the car, Jessie Cole and Albert Bowers, were sentenced in 2020 to 13 years for manslaughter and could apply for early release after serving half of their sentences. Image source, PA Media Image caption, Jessie Cole (left) and Albert Bowers (right) were convicted of manslaughter in 2020 The driver of the vehicle, Henry Long, received a 16-year sentence and is not eligible for early release. Speaking on the Today programme, Thames Valley Police chief Jason Hogg urged the government to reconsider its position. Only prisoners convicted of murder, rape, grooming, and serious child sex offences will be excluded from the scheme in England and Wales - while those convicted of manslaughter remain eligible. "I fully understand the challenges around the crisis in the prison system," he said. "But the decision made and where that line has been drawn, I do not believe that people responsible for taking the life of another citizen in our country should be released early." He said: "I was informed yesterday that the Police Federation are considering legal action, I am in discussions with the Police Federation with regards to this matter". Asked whether this meant he would join them, he said: "I think we need to get some legal advice in relation to this. This is something I certainly would consider." Following PC Harper's death and a campaign by his widow Lissie, Parliament passed "Harper's Law", which gives mandatory life sentences to the killers of emergency services workers. It also doubles the maximum penalty from 12 months to two years for those who assault police or other emergency workers. But the new rules - introduced in 2022 - did not apply retrospectively to the sentencing of PC Harper's killers, and so do not prevent them from being released early. Hogg said: "The law isn't retrospective and we all understand that, but the fact that they are released early simply seems perverse." Aileen O'Connor, branch chairman of Thames Valley Police Federation told BBC Breakfast her organisation was exploring whether legal action was an option. "If it is an avenue we can explore then I'll get behind that 110%," she said. As for what shape a potential legal challenge might take, she said: "Ultimately that's for the specialists, the barristers and those in that legal sector to make that decision whether there is a challenge there. "If there is a challenge then we will look to take that challenge." Sentencing minister Jake Richards told the BBC it would be wrong to pick out individual cases and block two of PC Harper's killers from early release. Although the government had reviewed what sentences would be excluded from the early release scheme, he confirmed "manslaughter is not one of those offences". On Wednesday the Ministry of Justice released a new list of exclusions that will be exempt from the early release scheme. It said rapists, as well as criminals sentenced for child sex offences and grooming and conspiracy offences for these crimes, will no longer be eligible to leave prison early. Murderers and terrorists were already not eligible for the early release scheme. Richards said: "It would be wrong to pick out individual cases within different offending cohorts. That wouldn't be right. It wouldn't be lawful either. So it is correct that those two individuals will be subject to the new regime from October". Any legal challenge would have to be heard in the High Court, where ministerial decisions are reviewed. Judges would have to be convinced that the government's choice of who gets out and who remains inside was either totally unlawful because they did not have the power to decide - or so irrational that it failed a legal test for reasonable decision-making. Crucially, judges do not rule against a minister just because they do not like the choice they have made - there has to be a clear legal flaw in how they went about it. Met Police commissioner Mark Rowley said the PC Harper case has had "a chilling effect on the confidence of police officers when they see a justice system that's not prepared to support their bravery". On Tuesday Justice Secretary Alex Norris said the government wanted to go further but warned that a prison capacity crisis would be likely if fewer prisoners were allowed early release. Norris apologised to families who would be affected by the early release scheme and stressed that the government wanted to go further "but we cannot". "We have to make this decision, we've been able to make some changes to it, but we have to have the rest of the sentencing act changes otherwise we run out of prison places in November and that can't happen," he said. The justice secretary said 5,000 extra releases will take place in 10 batches from October. Approximately 1,000 prisoners will now not be released early following the revision to the scheme, he clarified. The government also announced an extra £10m will go to front-line victim support services, including a new national helpline. Additional reporting by home and legal correspondent Dominic Casciani Related topics Policing Andy Burnham Sentencing in England and Wales More on this story What's behind having to release some prisoners early? Published 1 day ago Justice secretary apologises to families affected by early release scheme Published 1 day ago 'Harper's Law' bill receives Royal Assent Published 29 April 2022 The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia 0:50 Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea. 00:00:50, play video Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea 1:01 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller. 00:01:01, play video 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:49 Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales. 00:00:49, play video Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales 0:59 The city closing down streets so children can play. 00:00:59, play video The city closing down streets so children can play 1:23 The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII. 00:01:23, play video The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII 1:30 What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK. 00:01:30, play video What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK 0:37 Crispy butter beans with whipped feta. 00:00:37, play video Crispy butter beans with whipped feta 0:57 Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites. 00:00:57, play video Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport 1:01 What are the 'luteal uglies'? 00:01:01, play video What are the 'luteal uglies'? Top stories Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate Published 57 minutes ago Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London Published 4 hours ago University of Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns Published 1 hour ago More to explore The cost of being single – and how friends are teaming up to beat it From flip flops to fisherman's sandals: How to look after your feet this summer 'My grandmother subjected my baby to female genital mutilation behind my back' 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' Kate Nash on Irish history, heritage and covering Sinéad O'Connor There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media 'This year has been the worst for my heat anxiety' Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Love shouldn't feel like fear How hydrated do you really need to be? Melvin Odoom on the MiniDiscs he can't throw away The origin story of the first Comic Con Most read 1 University of Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 2 Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London 3 Family 'devastated' by death of girl, 9, as man charged with murder 4 El-Sayed's victory sends tremors through Democratic Party 5 See the Sun like never before with most detailed images yet 6 Student loan repayment rates an 'unsustainable burden', chancellor told 7 Apology after carer fed dog food to elderly woman by mistake 8 Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate 9 Drone carrying explosives found at German airport, police say 10 Anthropic AI used fake profiles to target people in hack then hid the evidence BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.