Chipotle pulls jalapenos in Minnesota salmonella outbreak after dozens fall ill - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Spokane Wildfires World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds MoneyWatch | Managing Your Money CBS News Price Tracker Watch CBS News MoneyWatch Chipotle pulls jalapenos in Minnesota salmonella outbreak after dozens fall ill By Aimee Picchi , Aimee Picchi Associate Managing Editor, MoneyWatch Aimee Picchi is the associate managing editor for CBS MoneyWatch, where she covers business and personal finance. She previously worked at Bloomberg News and has written for national news outlets including USA Today and Consumer Reports. Read Full Bio Aimee Picchi , Aki Nace Aki Nace Digital Producer, CBS Minnesota Aki Nace has been a web producer for CBS Minnesota since 2019. She covers breaking news and makes short-form documentary films. Read Full Bio Aki Nace Updated on: August 4, 2026 / 4:58 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Chipotle on Tuesday said it has pulled jalapenos linked to a salmonella outbreak in Minnesota from its restaurants, adding that it has replaced the peppers with product from another grower. In a statement, the restaurant chain said it made the decision amid a public health investigation into the outbreak, which Chipotle said had impacted "several food service retailers in Minnesota." The Minnesota Department of Health said it has identified 110 cases linked to the salmonella outbreak. Of the 84 Minnesotans interviewed as part of the investigation, 75 reported eating at Chipotle. The agency said the customers ate at the restaurant between June 14 and July 14, with most eating there between June 24 and July 2. "Out of an abundance of caution, we proactively removed the jalapenos from our restaurants and replaced them with product from different growers," Chipotle said. "The Minnesota Department of Health has confirmed it has no ongoing concerns with Chipotle. We are cooperating with public health authorities in their efforts." FDA examining "multiple ingredients" The Food and Drug Administration said it initiated a traceback investigation on July 22 of "multiple ingredients" in response to a cluster of salmonella cases identified by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and state officials. "At the same time, Chipotle, in coordination with state partners, proactively began reviewing its supply chain. FDA appreciates the company's cooperation with the investigation and will provide additional information if and when there is an actionable public health update," the FDA said. Shares of Chipotle slid $3.28, or 8.8%, to $34.18 on Tuesday afternoon. The stock decline comes as consumers remain sensitive to food safety issues following the weekslong cyclospora outbreak that has sickened thousands of people nationwide. Although salmonella and cyclospora are different pathogens, recent outbreaks have weighed on demand for some fresh produce and restaurant chains associated with those foods. Outbreak to spread? "Given the measures Chipotle put in place, we are not concerned about Chipotle. But it is possible that the outbreak is ongoing if the contaminated food item is being served elsewhere," said Carlota Medus, a senior epidemiologist supervisor with the Minnesota Department of Health. "We do expect the case count to increase even if the illnesses occurred a couple of weeks ago, since it takes us a while to detect cases in surveillance." Following the cyclospora outbreak, grocers and restaurant chains featuring lettuce-heavy menus have experienced a drop-off in visits . Visits to Taco Bell, which had served lettuce under recall due to the cyclospora outbreak, saw its foot traffic drop by 30% in mid-July, according to data provided to CBS News from retail analytics platform Placer.ai. Salmonella can cause diarrhea, fever and stomach cramps within eight to 72 hours after exposure, according to the Mayo Clinic, which said most healthy people recover within days to a week without treatment. Edited by Alain Sherter More from CBS News Can you qualify for debt forgiveness after a divorce? What to watch for in SpaceX's first public earnings report today SpaceX shows strong growth in its first earnings report since IPO More adult children live at home now than during the pandemic Go deeper with The Free Press Minnesota Vice: How Corruption Took Hold in My State Sanctuary Cities Are Built on Shaky Law In: Salmonella Chipotle © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. First deaths linked to cyclospora reported First deaths linked to cyclospora parasite reported as outbreak cases rise 04:00 First deaths linked to cyclospora parasite reported as outbreak cases rise (04:00) Can you qualify for debt forgiveness after a divorce? What to watch for in SpaceX's first public earnings report today SpaceX shows strong growth in its first earnings report since IPO Minnesota Vice: How Corruption Took Hold in My State Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest MLB Trade Deadline Predictions NFL Overrated QBs Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue