Comedian Jimmy Cricket dies aged 80 - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Comedian Jimmy Cricket dies aged 80 Published 3 August 2026 Updated 4 August 2026 Comedian Jimmy Cricket has died aged 80 after a short illness, his family said. In a statement posted to social media they said Cricket spent his last few days surrounded by his family, love, laughter and songs. "Forever our clown, he was cracking jokes to the wonderful NHS staff and to us all, right until the end. His courage, dignity and positivity through all he endured was inspirational," they added. The comedian, who was from Northern Ireland but later moved to Greater Manchester, became a household name in the 1970s. Cricket was born as James Joseph Mulgrew in Cookstown, County Tyrone in 1945. He left school at 16 and started the summer season of 1966 as a Redcoat for Butlins. He worked the comedy club scene in the 1970s and 1980s, going on to win LWT's Search for a Star talent contest. He eventually got his own TV show on ITV and a radio series on BBC Radio 2. Cricket's family said he had been a "force for joy" and the world was a "far less sillier place today". "We were going to end by using his famous catchphrase and say: 'There's no More'. "But Jimmy was a man of great faith and a Papal Knight of the Catholic Church. "He believed that death is not the end and was looking forward to eternity, so really… And there's more." Image source, AFP via Getty Images Image caption, Cannon and Ball, The Krankies, Jimmy Cricket, Frank Carson and Paul Daniels pictured on stage in Blackpool in 2008 Cricket was known for his catchphrases and an onstage outfit comprised of a battered bowler hat, tails, rolled up trousers and wellington boots with R and L on the front. Northern Ireland comedian John Linehan, known for his pantomime dame character May McFettridge, said Cricket was "so nice and he was so humble". "He was so funny... he was just a star, he was just so modest, just so simple in what he did and everybody loved him," he told BBC News NI. Comedian Tim Vine has also paid tribute on X, describing him as a "lovely, inspiring, funny man". "I have a great memory being at his home and he said: 'Do you want to hear my new song?' I said: 'Of course'. "He then sang it to me live while dancing about in front of me. I thought: 'I hope I'm like this when I'm older.'" The actor and comedian Ted Robbins said Cricket was one of the last great comics with a "unique style" who was "never blue, just funny". "I know he and all his family have a great Christian faith so maybe The Angels will be saying 'Come here Jimmy - there's more'!" 'True legend' For more than a decade of his later life, Cricket was a resident comedian at the Lyndene Hotel in Blackpool. Staff from the hotel paid a warm tribute to him on social media. "It's with deep sadness, that we hear of the passing of our very good friend and true Lyndene legend Jimmy Cricket," they said. "Jimmy has entertained our Lyndene guest's for over 10 years. "He will be sadly missed by us all." Jimmy Cricket speaks to BBC Radio 4 Extra's The Comedy Club Listen on Sounds Speaking to BBC Radio 4 Extra's The Comedy Club in March 2024, Cricket spoke about his journey into comedy. He said his family moved to Belfast when he was two years old. "There was still trams then, would you believe, I took the tram to school." He said that he was always a comedian, even back then. Variety shows in Belfast inspired him to take it up as a career. "You could pay a shilling... and sit in the gallery and look down on these amazing performers and that's where I caught the bug." Related topics Northern Ireland Cookstown More on this story Comedian Jimmy Cricket honoured by Pope Published 18 September 2015 The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:34 Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents. 00:00:34, play video Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents 1:05 What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident. 00:01:05, play video What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident 0:29 How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 00:00:29, play video How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 1:27 Are older and younger generations in conflict? 00:01:27, play video Are older and younger generations in conflict? 1:18 Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 00:01:18, play video Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 0:48 Model's photos used to catfish women. 00:00:48, play video Model's photos used to catfish women 1:29 The inventor who refused to take no for an answer. 00:01:29, play video The inventor who refused to take no for an answer 1:07 How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 00:01:07, play video How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 1:01 E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths. 00:01:01, play video E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths 1:07 NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England. 00:01:07, play video NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England 0:52 Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion. 00:00:52, play video Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion 0:59 Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation. 00:00:59, play video Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation 0:35 Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend. 00:00:35, play video Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend 1:25 Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings. 00:01:25, play video Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings 0:55 Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 00:00:55, play video Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 0:48 Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances. 00:00:48, play video Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances 1:16 GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview. 00:01:16, play video GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview 1:07 What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 00:01:07, play video What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 0:58 '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 00:00:58, play video '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 0:29 Where does salmonella get its name? 00:00:29, play video Where does salmonella get its name? Top stories Live . Rescue efforts enter fifth day on Nepal-Tibet border with more than 2,400 missing after flash flood 1173 viewing 1.2k viewing At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot Published 3 hours ago Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor Published 7 hours ago More to explore Dolly Parton's dad couldn't read - it inspired her to send books to millions of children Sweetcorn ice creams and pastries: The latest 'swavoury' trend taking over your feed How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works We helped create UK emergency alert system - but question how government is using it Hypermobility - the little-known 'bendy disease' that causes pain and fatigue Strong winds and thunderstorms kick off the bank holiday weekend 'I thought diet clubs weren't for men' Embroidery on display as town celebrates conqueror Royal Watch: Get the latest royal stories and analysis with Sean Coughlan’s weekly newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Low-key noughties sitcom starring Robert Webb and Paula Wilcox Keith Richards recalls how he wrote the iconic 'Satisfaction' An unlikely gang set out to catch a killer who shattered rural peace Did Emily ruin Paris? Most read 1 Rescue to continue overnight for 'in distress' vessel carrying five in the Channel 2 Sarah Ferguson expected back in the UK 'shortly', source says 3 Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor 4 I've been to Gamescom six times - here's what excited me this year 5 'Healey eyes banks and oil tax' and 'X Factor comeback' 6 Norway's new king remembers 'my dear father' in first speech 7 How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works 8 They fell in love - then had to check they weren't brother and sister 9 Man dies after train hits van on crossing 10 At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.