Amazon tops $3 trillion market cap as stock continues to surge Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech Amazon tops $3 trillion market cap as stock continues post-earnings surge Published Mon, Aug 3 2026 11:05 AM EDT Updated Mon, Aug 3 2026 4:02 PM EDT CJ Haddad @in/cristenhaddad/ WATCH LIVE Key Points Shares of Amazon hit a new all-time high to start the week, putting its market cap over the $3 trillion. The company posted strong Q2 earnings last week, highlighted by cloud growth. Some of Amazon's biggest cloud rivals also saw robust growth, with Microsoft and Alphabet beating estimates. In this article GOOGL MSFT AMZN Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 3:14 03:14 Amazon soars on Q2 earnings Squawk Box Shares of Amazon hit a new all-time high on Monday, putting its market cap over the $3 trillion threshold for the first time following a better-than-expected earnings report last week. Monday's new record is the best day for Amazon since May 5. Shares closed up 4%. The jump comes after the company reported a surge in cloud growth during the second quarter on the back of strong artificial intelligence demand. It reported adjusted earnings per share of $1.97 versus estimates of $1.82 per share. Revenue came in at $200.61 billion, beating the $196.47 billion analysts estimated. The Q2 print also saw Amazon hike its capex estimate as memory prices linked to the AI buildout have continued to rise, CEO Andy Jassy told investors on the conference call. Capital expenditures are now projected to hit $220 billion this year, he said, up from the $200 billion the company projected in February. "But even at that amount, we will still not have enough capacity to meet all the demand we have in 2026, and I believe this dynamic will also be true in 2027 too," Jassy said. "In fact, the demand we already have for 2028 is striking." Amazon Web Services revenue came in at $42.2 billion, flying past StreetAccount expectations of $40.54 billion. It comes as some of Amazon's biggest cloud rivals also saw major growth in their divisions, with Microsoft Azure cloud revenue rising 43% during the fiscal fourth quarter and Google Cloud reporting 82% growth during their own earnings last week. CNBC's Annie Palmer contributed to this report. Amazon stock chart. Read more CNBC tech news Marc Benioff is getting his mojo back as Salesforce's AI strength quiets skeptics Judge blocks Pentagon blacklist of Anthropic as supply chain risk SK Hynix CEO says Indiana will be key memory production base by 2030, first U.S. facility now underway After Meta's landmark settlement with state AGs, legal headaches remain Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by