Federal government declares first-ever water shortage in Colorado River - UPI.com U.S. News World News Korea Regional Review Latin America Region Odd News Entertainment Movies Music TV Sports NFL MLB NBA Soccer Voices Photos News US News World News Entertainment Sports Archive Almanac Trending Lionel Richie Emari Demercado USPS whistleblower Times Square stabbing Mosque attack James Jordan Mosque attack Cuba retail Mysterious island U.S. News Aug. 16, 2021 / 8:45 PM Federal government declares first-ever water shortage in Colorado River By Daniel Uria The Bureau of Reclamation ordered mandatory water consumption cuts in Arizona, Nevada and Mexico as it declared the first-ever water shortage in the Colorado River Basin. File Photo by Jim Lo Scalzo/EPA-EFE Aug. 16 (UPI) -- The federal government on Monday declared a water shortage in the Colorado River Basin for the first time, prompting mandatory water consumption cuts throughout the Southwest. In its August 2021 24-Month study , the Bureau of Reclamation said that Lake Mead, the largest reservoir in the United States by volume, was 1,067 feet above sea level and at 35% capacity. The agency predicted the lake is expected to remain near 1,066 feet into 2022, leading it to announce the Colorado River will enter the first tier of water cuts beginning Jan. 1. "Like much of the West, and across our connected basins, the Colorado River is facing unprecedented and accelerating challenges," Interior Department Assistant Secretary for Water and Science Tanya Trujillo said in a statement. "The only way to address these challenges and climate change is to utilize the best available science and to work cooperatively across the landscapes and communities that rely on the Colorado River." Under the cuts, Arizona will see an 18% reduction of its total Colorado River Supply and Nevada will lose about 7%. The government will also reduce Mexico's annual allotment of water from the river by 5%. A second tier of cuts would be triggered if Lake Mead falls below 1,050 feet and could arrive as soon as 2023. "Today's announcement of a Level 1 Shortage Condition at Lake Mead underscores the value of the collaborative agreements we have in place with the seven basin states, Tribes, water users and Mexico in management of water in the Colorado River Basin," Reclamation Deputy Commissioner Camille Touton said. "While these agreements and actions have reduced the risk, we have not eliminated the potential for continued decline of these critically important reservoirs." The cut is expected to have an impact on agriculture, particularly in Arizona. Some farmers have fallowed their fields or switched to less water-intensive crops while others have begun pumping additional groundwater to compensate. "The river is the iconic resource," Kevin Moran of the Environmental Defense Fund told The New York Times . "But we have to think about managing our groundwater as well." A 2020 study by U.S. Geological Survey scientists found that the Colorado River's flow has declined by about 20% throughout the past century with more than half of the decline attributed to warming temperatures. Researchers added that the average discharge could decline by 31% compared to the historical average by the middle of the century unless significant reduction to planet-heating emissions occurs. Brad Udall, senior water and climate scientist at Colorado Stae University, told CNN the decline in Lake Mead is "very significant." "It's something that those of us in the climate community have been worried about for over a decade, based on declining flows due to climate change," he said. Read More PG&E warns it may cut power to nearly 40,000 amid favorable fire conditions Portland could hit 104 amid scorching heat wave Ferocious storms to erupt across the central United States Latest Headlines U.S. News // 53 minutes ago Trump taps Hung Cao to lead Navy permanently Sept. 2 (UPI) -- President Donald Trump on Tuesday nominated Hung Cao to be secretary of the Navy amid an ongoing shakeup of the U.S. military. U.S. News // 2 hours ago DOJ sues Kansas City, Kan., schools over transgender guidelines Sept. 2 (UPI) -- the Justice Department sued a Kansas City school district, accusing it of violating federal law with student gender identity guidelines. U.S. News // 4 hours ago Judge rules suspect in Charlie Kirk killing can stand trial Sept. 1 (UPI) -- A Utah judge ruled Tuesday that there is sufficient evidence for Tyler Robinson to stand trial for the murder of Charlie Kirk. U.S. News // 5 hours ago House of Representatives censures Rep. Chuck Edwards over conduct Sept. 1 (UPI) -- The House of Representatives on Tuesday voted to censure Rep. Chuck Edwards, R-N.C., over allegations of misconduct toward two female staff members. U.S. News // 6 hours ago Tropical Storm Edouard moves inland, flash flooding possible Sept. 1 (UPI) -- Tropical Storm Edouard made landfall Tuesday at the Texas-Louisiana border, moving inland toward the northwest with gusty winds and heavy rainfall. U.S. News // 7 hours ago Maine teenager tied to extremist 764 network sentenced Sept. 1 (UPI) -- A Maine 17-year-old has been charged in federal court and sentenced in connection with online nihilistic extremist groups, the FBI said Tuesday. U.S. News // 7 hours ago Gateway Arch is going dark to help migrating birds St. Louis' Gateway Arch will go dark at night throughout September as millions of birds make their seasonal journey south. U.S. News // 9 hours ago House votes to fund government through Dec. 11 Sept. 1 (UPI) -- Members of the U.S. House of Representatives voted Tuesday to approve short-term government funding through the midterm elections and into December. U.S. News // 10 hours ago Trump administration urges screen time limits for kids in symposium Sept. 1 (UPI) -- The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services hosted a Live Real Life Symposium Tuesday in Washington, D.C., to ask families to reduce screen time. U.S. News // 11 hours ago U.S. military hits Iran targets again; Trump threatens bigger attacks Sept. 1 (UPI) -- The U.S. military launched new strikes Tuesday on Iran, attacks that President Donald Trump said were in retaliation for Iran's recent actions. Trending Stories Opposition to oil deal with U.S. grows in Venezuela USPS whistleblower says new mail voting policy hidden from public Mexican forces kill cartel leader targeted by $3M U.S. reward John Ternus takes over as CEO of Apple as Tim Cook steps aside Latin America's changing family is becoming a demographic challenge Follow Us Back to top About UPI Contact Corrections Advertisements Copyright © 2026 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Privacy Manager