Elon Musk’s X latest to block Saudi dissident accounts inside kingdom | X | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Yahya Assiri, a Saudi human rights activist, is one of those affected by the account blocking. Photograph: Martin Godwin/The Guardian View image in fullscreen Yahya Assiri, a Saudi human rights activist, is one of those affected by the account blocking. Photograph: Martin Godwin/The Guardian X Elon Musk’s X latest to block Saudi dissident accounts inside kingdom Exclusive: More than 60 accounts on X have been made unavailable in Saudi Arabia, after similar action on Snapchat and Facebook Geneva Abdul Tue 4 Aug 2026 11.20 EDT Last modified on Tue 4 Aug 2026 11.44 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Elon Musk’s X has become the latest major US social media company to block the accounts of Saudi Arabian dissidents so they are no longer visible inside the kingdom, following orders from Saudi authorities. Earlier this year, the Guardian reported that platforms including Snapchat and Meta’s Facebook and Instagram had blocked dissidents’ accounts over allegations by Saudi authorities that they were violating local law. At the time, X , formerly Twitter, said it had notified users that it had not taken any action following requests by Saudi authorities, and it “strongly believes in defending and respecting the voice of our users”. However, since mid-July more than 60 accounts on the platform have been made unavailable in Saudi Arabia through geoblocking, which prevents users inside the kingdom from viewing the content, according to the London-based human rights organisation ALQST. Those affected include Yahya Assiri , a Saudi human rights activist who runs ALQST, and Abdullah Alaoudh, a US-based activist and vocal critic of Saudi human rights violations. Others affected include exiled activists, Saudi academics and independent media. Alaoudh, a senior policy adviser for Gulf issues at the American Committee for Middle East Rights, said: “I think it’s horrible because we were fighting tyrants back home and now we’re fighting tyrants and their cronies here where we are in exile. “It’s censorship – and what’s even worse is that they did not say we violated X’s rules or Meta’s rules.” Account holders received emails from X informing them that their content had been withheld in the kingdom “in order to comply with X’s obligations under Saudi Arabia’s local laws”. A Saudi decree attached to the letters and seen by the Guardian said the accounts had transmitted material that “infringes on public order, religious values, public morals or the sanctity of private life”. Abdullah Aljuraywi, a monitoring and campaigns officer at ALQST, whose X account was also blocked inside the kingdom, said: “The news was sadly not very surprising, given that the authorities have a long history of silencing criticism at home and treating Saudis who speak out from abroad, especially those still connected to people inside the country, as a threat. “What is even more concerning is that technology companies have helped enable this suppression, instead of protecting the freedom of speech they often say they support.” ALQST has called on X, Meta, Snapchat and YouTube to restore access to the accounts and provide transparency over how the decisions were reached. Meta previously told the Guardian that when it received reports of content violating local law but not the company’s own community standards, the company may restrict the content’s availability in the country where it was alleged to be unlawful. X and the Saudi embassy in London have been approached for comment. Other accounts targeted include those of Ghanem al-Masarir, a prominent Saudi satirist. Earlier this year a British court ordered Saudi Arabia to pay him £3m in damages after his iPhones were hacked and he was physically attacked outside Harrods in central London. In May, al-Masarir was notified by YouTube that two of his accounts, with more than 800,000 subscribers combined, would be blocked in the kingdom after legal complaints made from a “government entity”. YouTube did not respond to a request for comment. The same month, X emailed al-Masarir informing him of the request from Saudi authorities alleging that his account violated Saudi law, with an attached decree. By July, the company had notified al-Masarir that his content had been withheld in the kingdom to comply with local laws. “I’m not surprised that Saudi has asked to block, but I’m surprised Elon Musk has listened,” al-Masarir said. He predicted “other authoritarian countries around the world” would follow suit. Explore more on these topics X Saudi Arabia Snapchat Facebook Instagram Meta Internet news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Lisa Nandy quits X over fears Musk-owned site pushes ‘abuse and misinformation’ 2 Jul 2026 Labour MP sues Elon Musk’s xAI company over fake sexualised images 3 Jun 2026 If you’re still on Elon Musk’s X, ask yourself this: why? 28 May 2026 … … comments X to block UK access to accounts linked to terrorist groups in Ofcom agreement 15 May 2026 Lib Dems push for ban on MPs taking money from X, citing Maga threat 29 Apr 2026 Elon Musk’s X fined $650,000 after failing to comply with Australian child safety notice 21 May 2026 Child abuse material ‘systemic’ on Elon Musk’s X amid Grok scandal, Australian online safety regulator warned 16 Mar 2026 X suspends 800m accounts in one year amid ‘massive’ scale of manipulation attempts 9 Mar 2026 Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)