4 takeaways from Tuesday's primary election results : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics 4 takeaways from Tuesday's primary election results Progressives notched major wins in Michigan, while voters in Missouri and Washington rejected insurgent Democrats. Meanwhile, Trump continued to flex his influence over the Republican Party. Elections Progressives see biggest win yet in Michigan, while Trump flexes power over GOP Updated August 5, 2026 10:33 AM ET Originally published August 5, 2026 6:08 AM ET Saige Miller Voters go to the polls to cast their ballots in the Michigan primary election on Tuesday in Lansing Mich. Bill Pugliano/Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Bill Pugliano/Getty Images Everyone got a little bit of what they wanted in Tuesday's primary elections. It was a good night for the Democratic establishment, the progressives and Republican candidates endorsed by President Trump. Elections Primaries in the Midwest have become a high stakes proving ground for progressives Some of the primary races for House and Senate in Kansas , Michigan , Missouri , Virginia and Washington are critical to which party will hold power in the next Congress. The results following the primary elections indicate a clear split between the establishment and progressive arms of the Democratic Party, while Trump continues to flex his power with Republicans. But voters also pushed back against Republican Party priorities in a pair of ballot initiatives in red states. Progressive power tested It was a huge primary win for the progressive side of the Democratic Party. Voters in Michigan picked progressive candidate Abdul El-Sayed as the Democratic nominee for Senate. He beat Rep. Haley Stevens, who was backed by the establishment wing of the party and has taken a more moderate approach to the race. Sponsor Message Politics Progressive Abdul El-Sayed wins Michigan's Democratic primary for Senate The race was the biggest test for progressives to see if their populist agenda, such as Medicare for All, would bode well in a true swing state. If Democrats want to take control of the U.S. Senate in November, winning the seat is crucial to accomplishing that goal. But the outcome of the Democratic primary makes it clear there is a stark divide among Democratic primary voters and the qualities they want to see from a sitting senator. Whoever wins the primary will face a tough challenge from the Republican nominee, former Rep. Mike Rogers. Elections Here are Michigan's 2026 primary election results Progressives also picked up a win in Michigan's one true toss-up district. Progressive William Lawrence beat two other Democrats for the nomination. Lawrence is set to challenge first-term incumbent Rep. Tom Barrett in November. In Michigan's 13th Congressional District, Donavan McKinney unseated Rep. Shri Thanedar. Establishment Democrats got the candidates they wanted in a few key races. In Missouri's 1st Congressional District, Rep. Wesley Bell won a rematch against former Rep. Cori Bush. Bell was backed by the national party, while Bush clenched endorsements from democratic socialists and high-profile progressives, such as Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders. Related: Bell defeats Bush in contentious 1st Congressional District Democratic primary rematch Sponsor Message Bell will face Republican nominee Paul Berry in November, though Cook Political Report rates the district as solidly Democratic. In Virginia, Democratic voters picked establishment-backed candidates for two House seats. The two seats, Virginia's 1st and 2nd congressional districts, are ones Democrats hope to flip in November to inch toward the party's goal of taking control of the chamber. Voters go to the polls to cast their ballots in the Michigan primary election on Tuesday in Lansing Mich. Bill Pugliano/Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Bill Pugliano/Getty Images Money in politics a bit of a mixed bag One of the rallying cries of the progressive left has been to "get money out of politics." As the spending in Michigan's Senate race ballooned, El-Sayed specifically criticized a pro-Israel political action committee, AIPAC, saying the organization had too much influence in politics. AIPAC and its aligned groups spent millions of dollars backing Stevens in the Democratic primary — money that it's not clear paid off. According to Open Secrets , a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization that tracks congressional candidate fundraising and spending, by mid-July, outside groups had spent $52 million in Michigan. That's the most expensive use of outside spending apart from Texas' contentious and protracted Senate race. Elections Democrats show divisions on Israel amid competitive midterm elections In the race in St. Louis, Rep. Bell's commitment to fund humanitarian and military aid to Israel saw AIPAC back his candidacy in a safe blue seat, to prevent another candidate, who might be critical of Israel, from taking that seat. Trump's influence remains strong with Republicans Trump-backed candidates in Washington state, Kansas and Michigan won their party's nomination. In Washington's 4th Congressional District, Trump endorsed Yakima County Commissioner Amanda McKinney. She beat 10 other candidates for the top spot. The wide-open seat is to replace outgoing Republican Congressman Dan Newhouse — one of the only Republicans still in office who voted to impeach Trump in 2021. A sign directs residents to a polling place on Tuesday in Dearborn, Mich. Scott Olson/Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Scott Olson/Getty Images McKinney received Trump's endorsement, but it didn't come with any certainty. A Trump-endorsed candidate has never won a general election in the conservative, rural district, although there is a possibility that could change since Newhouse is not on the ballot. McKinney will face Democrat John Duresky in November. Sponsor Message Elections Here are Washington's 2026 primary election results Trump-backed candidates also won the Republican nomination for governor in Michigan and Kansas. Democrats currently hold the office in both states, but Republicans are hoping to take the mansion back since the sitting governors are term-limited. In Michigan, Republican Rep. John James won the nomination. He'll face off against Michigan's Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson. In Kansas, Republican state Sen. Ty Masterson clinched the nomination. Masterson faces a challenge from Cindy Holscher, another state senator. While Trump won both states in 2024, Michigan and Kansas have different electorates. Michigan is a swing state, and Democrats have hung on to the office since 2018. Kansas, on the other hand, is solidly red. Even though there has been a Democratic governor running the state for the last two election cycles, it's unclear if that can happen again. The three races show Trump's grip on the Republican base, despite record-low approval ratings over the state of the economy and the U.S. involvement in the Iran war. Bad night for Republican-backed ballot initiatives It was a tough loss for two Republican-led ballot initiatives in Missouri and Kansas. No changes to the state Supreme Court bench are happening in Kansas' future. Voters there rejected a Republican-backed proposal for state Supreme Court justices to be elected instead of appointed. Elections Here are Kansas' 2026 primary election results Currently, judges for the state's highest court are appointed by the governor based on choices presented by a nominating committee. Most of the court has been appointed by the current and previous governors, both Democrats elected in the mostly Republican state. The court has upheld abortion rights, among other stands objected to by Republican leaders. Voters in Missouri voted against a proposal by the Republican-led legislature to make it harder for the public to pass future amendments to the state constitution. Elections Here are Missouri's 2026 primary election results After an amendment passed in recent years to end the legislature's strict ban on abortion and another that expanded Medicaid, the legislature proposed a question on Tuesday's ballot that would have raised the bar. Currently, approval just requires a majority vote statewide. The defeated amendment would have required a majority vote in each of the state's eight congressional districts. None of the recent amendments would have passed if that were the threshold. 2026 primary elections 2026 midterms Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR National 12 dead after skydiving plane crashes in Missouri, authorities say Politics House Ethics Committee will investigate Ohio Republican Max Miller Health Black lung rates in Appalachia are high as the 1970s, with thousands of miners sick Fresh Air Remembering Irish singer–songwriter Glen Hansard : Fresh Air Politics Progressive Abdul El-Sayed wins Michigan's Democratic primary for Senate National Arson suspect makes first court appearance as Spokane wildfires rage on More Stories From NPR Consider This from NPR What do Tuesday’s primaries signal about where the Democratic Party is headed? Politics Progressive Abdul El-Sayed wins Michigan's Democratic primary for Senate Elections Primaries in the Midwest have become a high stakes proving ground for progressives Elections 5 states have primary elections on Tuesday. These are the races to watch Elections Here are Kansas' 2026 primary election results Elections Here are Washington's 2026 primary election results Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Health Black lung rates in Appalachia are high as the 1970s, with thousands of miners sick Health Dr. Erica Schwartz confirmed as CDC director, filling a leadership vacuum Law Judge reluctantly dismisses case against Oath Keepers militia group over Jan. 6 riot National Arson suspect makes first court appearance as Spokane wildfires rage on It's Been a Minute The questionable new ways to surveil your friends The Indicator from Planet Money How ending TPS is squeezing workers, businesses and (soon) consumers NPR Editors' Picks Asia Ousted Bangladeshi leader vows to return from exile despite facing a death sentence World Cafe How Midwest doldrums became a gift for Kevin Morby Asia Pakistan's ruling party leads in Kashmir vote despite boycott call by banned group Asia Under China's new 'unity' law, Tibetans fight to preserve language and culture Europe A Russian barrage in Ukraine's capital kills 17 as air defenses fall short Your Health Nicotine pouches can be marketed as 'lower risk' than cigarettes. Is that dangerous? Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices