How a diary solved the disappearance and murder of Richard Dyson - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions Sheffield & South Yorkshire How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man Image caption, Richard Dyson (left) vanished without a trace in 2019 and Christopher Wright (right) was found guilty of his murder in July this year By Victoria Scheer Yorkshire Published 7 August 2026, 00:13 BST Updated 7 hours ago When Det Con Tom Ryan came across a diary entry about an old cattle trailer in July 2025, he knew he had finally solved the murder of a man who had disappeared six years earlier. Richard Dyson vanished without trace in November 2019. He was last seen alive on 17 November that year and was reported missing eight days later when he failed to meet his daughter, Bethany. "He was by all accounts a very good father, and he was regularly in contact with his daughter Bethany who was, I believe, 19 at the time of his disappearance. It was totally out of character," Ryan recalled. "It was clear that he had disappeared off the face of the Earth." Richard, who was 55 at the time, had been living in his car at Parkside Cottage on Christopher Wright's farm on Sheffield Road in Barnsley, helping with small jobs around the farm. The farm was searched, but other than a collection of illegal weapons belonging to Wright, nothing more unusual was found and there was no sign of Richard. His phone, however, showed it had never left the farm. Police believed from the outset that Richard had been killed and that Wright and his childhood friend, Karl Schwalbe, were responsible, according to Ryan. "We very much suspected their involvement, but without a body it's very difficult to prove murder," he said. On 28 July, Wright, 73, and Schwalbe, 72, were convicted for their roles in Richard's disappearance and murder, ending a six-year wait for answers for Richard's family. At a sentencing hearing at Sheffield Crown Court on Thursday, Wright was jailed for 35 years for murder and Schwalbe was given a three-year sentence for perverting the course of justice . But how did police finally catch them? Image source, South Yorkshire Police Image caption, Richard Dyson was caught on camera at a petrol station the day before he disappeared Nearly six years had passed when Ryan reviewed phone records relevant to the case. Among several calls made by Wright, one to Ian Ollerenshaw on 20 November 2019 caught his attention. "I went round to Ian's house and I asked him, 'Can you by any way remember that phone call that you received over six years ago' - and, to be entirely honest, I expected him to say no," he said. But the farmer, who lives at Alderthwaite Farm, just over a mile from Parkside Cottage, did remember. More remarkably, he produced a leather diary from 2019, in which he had noted that Wright had stopped by to drop off an old trailer. "As soon as I spoke to Ian and he remembered the phone call and he said 'the trailer is still here, do you want to go and see it' - as soon as he said that, I knew I'd found Richard," said Det Con Ryan. The farmer told him the trailer had been sitting padlocked and undisturbed in the corner of a field for years. By the time Det Con Ryan came across it, it was partially obscured by overgrown hedges and long grass. Image source, Crown Prosecution Service Image caption, Richard Dyson's body was found inside an old cattle trailer on a farm in Barnsley Most of the trailer was empty, but about a third of it was crammed from floor to ceiling with junk. And there, tucked away in a corner and covered by a baby changing mat, was a blue barrel. "The barrel was full of concrete, but it quite clearly had human bones protruding out of the top of it," said Det Con Ryan. A post-mortem examination later confirmed the bones belonged to Richard and that he had been shot with a shotgun before his body was dismembered, placed inside the barrel and encased in concrete. A jury would later hear how Wright had worked as a butcher for several years in the 1970s. Alongside Richard's remains, police found something else that would help them bring the person responsible for his murder to justice - an ID card in the name of Christopher Wright. Wright and Schwalbe were both arrested the same day. Image source, Crown Prosecution Service Image caption, Christopher Wright's ID was found by police inside the trailer Between 2019 and 2023, police had spent more than 286 hours searching Parkside Cottage. But what they found during their searches in 2025 dwarfed their earlier discoveries. Instead of a handful of firearms they had discovered previously, officers found an arsenal of weapons, including dozens of guns, thousands of rounds of ammunition, swords, 30 to 40 axes, daggers, crossbows and even tripwires. "It's obviously a man who has a fascination with weaponry," Det Con Ryan said. "It is the most weapons that I've ever known to be found in a person's house. "He had as many weapons and guns as you would need to arm an army." Image source, Crown Prosecution Service Image caption, Police found many firearms and other weapons at Wright's property CCTV footage of Richard's last movements on 17 November 2019 further supported what officers already knew - Wright had been the last person to see him alive. The cameras captured Richard returning to Wright's farm shortly after 23:00 GMT. About 20 minutes later, Wright called his friend, Schwalbe. The first call went unanswered, but minutes later a second call, lasting only a few seconds, connected. Not long after, footage showed Schwalbe's car making its way towards Wright's farm. "The extent of the physical assistance that Schwalbe provided to Wright is unknown to everybody other than the two men," said Ryan. "What is known is that Schwalbe could on any day in the last seven years have helped stop the suffering of Richard's family, but he chose not to." Three days after Richard's disappearance, bank transactions showed Wright went to Allendale Building Supplies in Hoyland. While it was never proved, it was suggested he went there to buy cement. Image source, South Yorkshire Police Image caption, The fateful entry from Ian Ollerenshaw's diary Long before Wright's and Schwalbe's trial began, prosecutors expected Wright to argue that someone else must have been responsible for Richard's disappearance and murder. But senior crown prosecutor Jamie Barton said the investigation consistently pointed in one direction. "All lines led to Mr Wright and Mr Schwalbe," she said. However, she said the six-year gap between Richard's disappearance and the discovery of his body left investigators with limited forensic evidence, poorer-quality CCTV than would be expected today and little mobile phone data. Even the murder weapon remained elusive, with none of the weapons seized presenting a link to Richard's fatal injuries. Although prosecutors did not have to prove motive, Barton said detectives uncovered evidence supporting long-standing rumours that Richard had stolen from Wright and, therefore, Wright killed him. "It's a case theory, it's not something that we can be certain of - but it's one thing that is relevant," she said. Image source, BBC/Victoria Scheer Image caption, Det Con Tom Ryan said the discovery of the diary entry was a "game-changer" During the trial, jurors were played a covert recording of a conversation between the two men outside Barnsley Police Station. On the recording, Wright can be heard apologising to his friend for getting him into trouble and Schwalbe saying he wished he had never gone to the farm that night. In another recording, Wright can be heard praying. "He was saying things along the lines of 'I only did what I had to survive, they bit the hand that fed them, I hope the police don't find my weapons'," said Ryan. Image source, South Yorkshire Police Image caption, Christopher Wright (left) asked his childhood friend Karl Schwalbe (right) to help him hide the body of Richard Dyson After six years of unanswered questions, it was not the covert recordings, the diary entry, the animal trailer or the weapons that mattered most to detectives. "I think more than anything, it's the fact that Richard's daughter knew that her dad had gone," said Ryan. "She knew he must have died because he'd not been in touch for all this time, but you hold on to that 5% of hope because you don't quite want to believe it. "To give her some closure has been wonderful and I hope they get the justice they so richly deserve." Get in touch Your Voice Contact form Contact form Listen to highlights from South Yorkshire on BBC Sounds , catch up with the latest episode of Look North Related topics Barnsley More on this story Farmer guilty of 'body in barrel' murder of lodger Published 28 July Murder-accused 'got on fine' with lodger, court told Published 13 July Man 'buried in barrel of concrete on farm' - court Published 15 June From other local news sites Leeds man among four arrested over 'atrocious' illegal waste dumping External Yorkshire Post Doncaster father tried to save daughter before both drowned, inquest hears External Doncaster Free Press Doncaster father died trying to save daughter swept into sea, inquest hears External Yorkshire Post Man accused of historic gun murder enters plea - more than 20 years on from Sheffield shooting External Sheffield Star Patient taken to hospital after two-vehicle crash at busy South Yorkshire roundabout External Sheffield Star M62 rush hour warning as central barrier crash near Huddersfield causes severe delays External Yorkshire Evening Post Information about BBC links to other news sites The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:28 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update. 00:00:28, play video 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update 2:01 Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape. 00:02:01, play video Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape 1:02 Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter. 00:01:02, play video Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter 1:17 What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:17, play video What we know about the Thailand school shooting 0:48 Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 00:00:48, play video Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 0:52 Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 00:00:52, play video Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 0:31 The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 00:00:31, play video The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 0:43 An earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan. 00:00:43, play video An earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan 0:33 Moment raiders drive car into service station. 00:00:33, play video Moment raiders drive car into service station 1:11 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 00:01:11, play video 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 0:39 How much rain will end the drought? 00:00:39, play video How much rain will end the drought? 0:24 Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol. 00:00:24, play video Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol 1:43 Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment. 00:01:43, play video Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment 0:44 Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup. 00:00:44, play video Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup 1:00 What is 'food noise'? 00:01:00, play video What is 'food noise'? 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:00 What do people want from Argos? 00:01:00, play video What do people want from Argos? 0:58 Meet Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? Top stories Police failings revealed as sex offender left free to murder and attack women Published 53 minutes ago Serial sex offender guilty of double murder and rape Published 2 hours ago Counter-terror police reopen attempted burglary probe as part of Widdecombe inquiry Published 1 hour ago More to explore Argos is getting a makeover - but can it attract new shoppers? Lauryn Hill and Wyclef ‘in an amazing place’ as fans hope for new Fugees album after 30 years How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man ‘We have nowhere to return to’: How Russia is seizing homes in occupied Ukraine First OpenAI, now Meta - why do AI hacks keep happening? The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC With great power comes great responsibility She's not a bad girl anymore, wink wink wink wink Can a test tell you what's living inside your gut? How much discipline is too much in school? Most read 1 Counter-terror police reopen attempted burglary probe as part of Widdecombe inquiry 2 Obesity rates have doubled in England since 1993 - what's going on? 3 Hunter Biden tells BBC his pardon was 'not good' for America or his father's legacy 4 Spain to impose border controls against Italy as row over Ceuta migrant influx intensifies 5 US appeals court halts Trump ballroom project paving way for Supreme Court showdown 6 Police failings revealed as sex offender left free to murder and attack women 7 Serial sex offender guilty of double murder and rape 8 Madonna and Blur producer William Orbit dies aged 69 9 Why there's a row about standing up while drinking in central London 10 'Like a bus seat back in the day' - new Wales kit leaves fans divided BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.