Reading and writing worsens in Australian schools as one in three students fail to meet Naplan benchmarks | Australian education | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters School Naplan results have been released by the Australian Curriculum, Assessment and Reporting Authority for 2026. Photograph: Lincoln Beddoe/Getty Images View image in fullscreen School Naplan results have been released by the Australian Curriculum, Assessment and Reporting Authority for 2026. Photograph: Lincoln Beddoe/Getty Images Australian education Reading and writing worsens in Australian schools as one in three students fail to meet Naplan benchmarks Education minister Jason Clare says the results showed ‘real challenges’ but numeracy scores were heartening Follow our Australia news live blog for latest updates Get our breaking news email , free app or daily news podcast Caitlin Cassidy Tue 4 Aug 2026 11.00 EDT Last modified on Tue 4 Aug 2026 11.01 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Reading and writing scores are going backwards for almost every age group in Australia’s national standardised school tests, with one in three students still failing to meet Naplan benchmarks. This year’s tests were taken in March by 1.2 million students across years 3, 5, 7 and 9 to measure literacy and numeracy proficiency, with results released on Wednesday by the Australian Curriculum, Assessment and Reporting Authority (Acara). Participation was down compared with last year due to industrial action in Tasmania and flooding in the Northern Territory, which has led Acara to not report Tasmanian state-level results as it lagged “far below” the body’s data standards for accurate reporting. Sign up for the Breaking News Australia email The tests were also marred by disruption over a technical issue on the first day for students completing writing papers in years 5, 7 and 9. Acara said national average scores in writing remained similar to last year but it has included a caveat for results, instead of implementing marking adjustments. One in three students weren’t meeting benchmarks across reading, numeracy and writing, which had not budged since 2025 , and one in 10 needed “additional support”, meaning they would need further help to progress and were not working towards expectations. Average reading scores in years 5, 7 and 9 went backwards compared with 2025, and more students were needing additional support in both reading and writing. Average reading scores were stable for year 3 students. The average proportion of students “exceeding” and “strong” at reading was 66.3%, down from 68.2% last year There were some improvements in national numeracy levels since the tests were reset in 2023 for students in years 5, 7 and 9, with the highest national average score of 67% meeting benchmarks and 29,000 more students “exceeding”. A chart showing the proportion of students meeting reading benchmarks The gains were also evident among Indigenous students, with more “exceeding” in years 7 and 9 compared with 2023 and average scores among year 5 and 7 students at the highest level since the tests were reset. But for year 3 students, the average national numeracy score was the lowest it had been since 2023. The education minister, Jason Clare, said the results showed “real challenges” as well as “how to fix them”, pointing to an ongoing numeracy review across primary school levels, spearheaded by Acara as a result of previous Naplan data. “There is good news here in numeracy,” Clare said. “It’s going up and up in years 5 and in high school. “Year 3 maths is a different story. That’s why we are fixing the maths curriculum for the first three years of school. “The reading results show we still have real challenges. They also show us how to fix them … This year’s results show that in schools using explicit teaching methods , including phonics, and small-group tutoring to give kids who are struggling extra intensive help, results are going up and up.” The federal government’s additional $20bn injection to the public system , to be rolled out over a decade, includes requirements that states and territories implement year 1 phonics and numeracy checks and back “evidence-based” teaching practices, including explicit teaching. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | When needed Sign up to Breaking News Australia Get the most important news as it breaks Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion Victoria had the highest average scores across year levels and domains, followed by the ACT and New South Wales, governments which have backed explicit teaching methods. The ACT is also the only jurisdiction to have reached full funding of public schools. The remaining states and territories fell below the Australian average in the majority of year levels and study areas. Montessori learning is being shut down at Leah’s school – is a push towards ‘explicit instruction’ to blame? Read more The chief executive of Acara, Stephen Gniel, said it was “encouraging” to see continued improvement in national numeracy, especially among the stronger students, but the drop in results among year 3 students was “clearly concerning”. “Education ministers are addressing this through a range of measures including the rollout of the national year 1 numeracy check,” he said. “Acara is also playing its part by reviewing the foundation to year 2 mathematics curriculum at the direction of education ministers.” Gniel said reading and writing needed “our collective attention”, as did continued disparities depending on geography and background. The average Naplan scores across year levels and domains were substantially higher for students from the highest socio-educational background, which is measured on parental education and occupation. Similarly, students tended to perform better in urban verses regional areas, with just 23% of students at very remote schools “exceeding” in reading and numeracy compared with 70% of students at major city schools. “It is … disheartening to see disparities persisting over the years in the attainment of students from our regional and remote areas, Indigenous students and those from a disadvantaged background,” Gniel said. “This needs to be a continuing focus for all in the coming years.” Gender differences also persisted, with female students outperforming males in literacy and males tending to perform better in numeracy . Explore more on these topics Australian education Australian politics news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Montessori learning is being shut down at Leah’s school – is a push towards ‘explicit instruction’ to blame? 1d ago … … comments Alleged illegal donations by Catholic Schools NSW to Liberals raise questions over use of taxpayer funds 15 Jul 2026 Australia’s ‘unfair’ visa price hikes: what are they, why have they gone up, and why does it matter? 12 Jul 2026 … … comments Arts degrees to cost $50,000 until at least 2028 as measures to lower Australian university fees put on hold 1 Jul 2026 ‘Chuck it on the iPad’: Socceroo urges schools to show Australia’s final World Cup group game 23 Jun 2026 Sydney’s UNSW overtakes University of Melbourne in global rankings for first time 17 Jun 2026 ‘Eyes up, screens down’: Victoria restricts tech in high school classrooms to two hours a day in national first 15 Jun 2026 Students would save $3bn over a decade if Labor changed Hecs indexation date by five months 31 May 2026 One in four humanities students in Australia to take more than 25 years to pay off student loans, Treasury finds 4 May 2026 Victoria teachers strike: warning of further action as 35,000 rally and hundreds of schools cancel classes 24 Mar 2026 Most viewed Most viewed Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)