Staff at the CDC in Atlanta remember victim of shooting a year ago as RFK jr. attends : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Staff at the CDC in Atlanta remember victim of shooting a year ago as RFK jr. attends It's been a year since a gunman opened fire on the CDC and killed a police officer. RFK Jr. visited the CDC today to remember the victim. National Staff at the CDC in Atlanta remember victim of shooting a year ago as RFK jr. attends August 7, 2026 4:24 PM ET Heard on All Things Considered By Jess Mador , Ailsa Chang Staff at the CDC in Atlanta remember victim of shooting a year ago as RFK jr. attends Listen · 3:34 3-Minute Listen Playlist Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5924799/nx-s1-9880166" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Transcript It's been a year since a gunman opened fire on the CDC and killed a police officer. RFK Jr. visited the CDC today to remember the victim. Sponsor Message Transcript AILSA CHANG, HOST: It's a week of heavy emotions at the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. Employees there are gathering to remember an August 2025 shooting that killed a police officer and left many people connected to the CDC shaken. Also marking the one-year anniversary is health secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. Kennedy spoke at a CDC ceremony today to honor the fallen officer. Jess Mador from member station WABE in Atlanta was at the CDC and joins us now. Hi, Jess. JESS MADOR, BYLINE: Hi. CHANG: So first, can you just remind us how this shooting unfolded at the CDC last August? What happened? MADOR: Yeah, it was afternoon rush hour, just a typical day, and suddenly a gunman opened fire outside the CDC's main campus. He shot hundreds of rounds toward the buildings, shattering windows and killing 33-year-old DeKalb County police officer David Rose before turning the gun on himself. And investigators later identified him as Patrick Joseph White. He left behind writings expressing his discontent with the COVID-19 vaccine. CHANG: And what was the scene like at the CDC today? MADOR: The official events with Robert F. Kennedy Jr. were off limits to reporters. But what we know is that RFK junior appeared at a morning ceremony with CDC staff. They unveiled a plaque honoring Officer Rose, and then in the afternoon, Kennedy, along with National Institutes of Health director and Acting CDC director Jay Bhattacharya hosted a town hall event with staff, and that was also off-limits to journals. CHANG: Off-limits - but I understand that you did have a chance to speak to some people who attended the events. What did you hear from them? MADOR: I did. I've spoken to multiple current and former CDC employees, and there's a mix of emotions. A lot of people feel Kennedy's visit overshadowed the remembrance of Officer Rose. And, you know, for others, today is just another reminder of a traumatic year for the agency. The CDC's had hundreds of employees leave, funding cuts, program cuts, and that's all been under RFK Jr. Here's one employee who was there on the day of the shooting hiding in a building, and she was there again today. She asked NPR not to use her name because she's not authorized to speak for the CDC and fears retribution. UNIDENTIFIED CDC EMPLOYEE: Of all people, we felt like that was odd. Of all days, to have the one person who is most responsible for the entire buckling and, like, crushing of this institution to be here on this day is pretty offensive. I don't know. I'm not sure who decided that that was a good idea. CHANG: Well, what does the Trump administration say about the CDC cuts? MADOR: Administration officials continue to say that cuts were needed to curb, you know, what it calls waste fraud and abuse at federal agencies. And now, this week, the Senate has confirmed Dr. Erica Schwartz to head the CDC. She'll be the first permanent director in about a year. She was previously deputy surgeon general during the First Trump administration, and now she inherits a CDC where morale is low. Employees tell me they're hopeful about the mission of protecting public health, and they're hopeful the agency can continue to do its work, especially in light of recent outbreaks - you know, measles, the flu, cyclosporiasis just this year. And tomorrow, there will be a memorial service for Officer Rose at a church near the CDC, and that is open to the community. CHANG: That is Jess Mador with WABE in Atlanta. Thank you, Jess. MADOR: Thank you so much. Copyright © 2026 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. Accuracy and availability of NPR transcripts may vary. Transcript text may be revised to correct errors or match updates to audio. Audio on npr.org may be edited after its original broadcast or publication. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record. Correction Aug. 8, 2026 A previous version of the description at the top of this story incorrectly said the victim of a gunman at the CDC was a security guard. He was a police officer. Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR A tale of two very different horny movies National Childcare crisis: Soaring infant care costs push Oklahoma families to financial brink Obituaries Monty Roberts, who trained horses through trust, dies at 91 Federal funds can't be used to give test strips to drug users, raising overdose fears Politics Blanche's path to confirmation appears clear after winning key Republican's support State of the World from NPR Why does Switzerland have so many nuclear bunkers? : State of the World from NPR More Stories From NPR The Picture Show The Women's Professional Baseball League makes its historic debut Elections Data centers are a political issue crossing party lines, driving voters to candidates Politics Senate votes to confirm Todd Blanche as attorney general Politics Another court blocks White House ballroom work, teeing up a Supreme Court review National When tragedy strikes, America's wildland firefighters ask, was it 'somebody that we loved?' The NPR news quiz Who or what is 'taking a step back from visibility'? The quiz knows Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! ‘Wait Wait’ for August 8, 2026: With Not My Job guest Sally Field Pop Culture Happy Hour A tale of two very different horny movies Family Amid cost of living stress, many parents are supporting children well into adulthood World Switzerland is a neutral nation but has more nuclear bunkers than any country in the world Ukraine invasion — explained Ukraine mourns 'collector of souls' Oleksiy Yukov, killed recovering war dead Planet Money Older workers aren’t retiring. Should they be forced to? NPR Editors' Picks The Americas K-pop's global wave inspires Chile's next pop stars Immigration Private prisons announce $1.4 billion in revenue as immigration detentions climb Health Reporting in the States Federal funds can't be used to give test strips to drug users, raising overdose fears The Ripple Effect How Jim James and Jeff Tweedy learned to love the Grateful Dead Economy Trump renews push to fire Fed Governor Lisa Cook Politics Senate passes Russia sanctions bill that was long championed by Lindsey Graham Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices