We’re about to find out how powerful progressives really are - POLITICO Skip to Main Content Toggle menu More from Politico Europe Pro E&E News AgencyIQ Press Escape to close the menu. search for any story WASHINGTON & POLITICS WASHINGTON & POLITICS 6 items 1st item Congress 2nd item White House 3rd item Supreme Court and Legal Issues 4th item Magazine 5th item 2026 Elections 6th item Latest on POLITICO STATE POLITICS & POLICY STATE POLITICS & POLICY 4 items 1st item California 2nd item Florida 3rd item New Jersey 4th item New York GLOBAL POLITICS & POLICY GLOBAL POLITICS & POLICY 6 items 1st item Brussels 2nd item Canada 3rd item United Kingdom 4th item France 5th item Germany 6th item Australia POLICY NEWS POLICY NEWS 11 items 1st item Food and Agriculture 2nd item Cybersecurity 3rd item Defense 4th item Education 5th item Energy and Climate 6th item Tax, Finance and the Economy 7th item Health Care 8th item Labor 9th item Tech 10th item Trade 11th item Transportation NEWSLETTERS NEWSLETTERS 6 items 1st item Playbook 2nd item West Wing Playbook 3rd item Inside Congress 4th item POLITICO Forecast 5th item POLITICO Magazine 6th item All Newsletters COLUMNISTS COLUMNISTS 7 items 1st item Alex Burns 2nd item Victoria Guida 3rd item John Harris 4th item Debra Kahn 5th item Jonathan Martin 6th item Nahal Toosi 7th item All Columnists SERIES & MORE SERIES & MORE 7 items 1st item Inside Congress Live 2nd item Breaking News Alerts 3rd item Podcasts 4th item Video 5th item Matt Wuerker Cartoons 6th item Cartoon Carousel 7th item The POLITICO Poll POLITICO Live POLITICO Live 1 item 1st item Events Follow us X Instagram Facebook LinkedIn My Account Log In We’re about to find out how powerful progressives really are A strong performance across the Senate race and two House primaries would bolster the left’s argument that its message has potency in a key battleground. Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) is introduced by Michigan Senate Democratic candidate Abdul El-Sayed at Mumford High School on May 3, 2026 in Detroit. | Getty Images By Erin Doherty and Andrew Howard 08/03/2026 05:45 AM EDT Share Copy link X Facebook Email Reddit WhatsApp LinkedIn Michigan is ground zero for the Democratic Party’s ideological war. Its marquee Senate race and two of its House primaries on Tuesday — in Michigan’s 7th and 13th Congressional Districts — will provide another crucial test of whether progressives can not only keep up their winning streak in safe-blue seats but also break through in battlegrounds crucial for control of Congress. The stakes for the Democratic Party are huge: A strong progressive performance, especially a victory by Abdul El-Sayed in the high-profile Senate race, would significantly bolster the left’s argument that its message resonates widely — setting the stage for a bruising fight over the party’s ideological direction ahead of November. And any Democrat eyeing a White House bid in 2028 will be watching closely for clues about what kind of message can win in Michigan, the perennial battleground that was recently selected as an early Democratic presidential primary state, giving it outsized influence on the nominating process. “If Abdul El-Sayed is successful next Tuesday, this will mean the hyper-progressive socialist movement has percolated into one of the most crucial general election states,” said Adrienne Elrod, a longtime Democratic strategist who was senior adviser and spokesperson for former Vice President Kamala Harris’ presidential campaign. “This means Democratic candidates running for president in 2028 will have to be even more mindful of how to approach this sector of the electorate.” A critical Senate battleground Buoyed by a string of primary victories this spring — in both safe and competitive districts from California to Colorado to Maine — progressives now face a major proving ground as they try and capture a statewide sweep. Backed by progressive stalwarts like Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.), El-Sayed faces moderate Rep. Haley Stevens in a bitter and costly feud for the Democratic nomination to take on former Rep. Mike Rogers, the unopposed Republican running for the open seat. The contest to replace retiring Democratic Sen. Gary Peters, is one of a handful of seats Democrats must defend in their longshot bid to take back control of the Senate. A victory by El-Sayed, who has leaned into his image as a progressive firebrand on social media, could provide a new playbook for Democrats in battlegrounds. “If El-Sayed wins the primary, there’s no real test case for a hard-edged, base-first, super online candidate succeeding at the state level — at least not in a swing state,” said Democratic strategist Matt McGrath, who was former President Barack Obama’s 2012 Michigan communications director. Public polling in the closing stretch shows El-Sayed with a double-digit lead over Stevens. The contest has attracted millions in outside spending and intense attention from Washington, as the candidates spar over campaign finance, Israel and electability — and what that means in a state Harris lost by fewer than 100,000 votes in 2024, even as Democratic Sen. Elissa Slotkin beat Rogers, who is back for redemption, that same year. “There’s all this hand-wringing across the country about electability,” said Jeff Weaver, a progressive Democratic strategist. “The same people who are carping about electability have lost the White House twice to Trump.” Progressive power in the purple 7th District The fight for Michigan’s 7th District has parallels to the Senate contest: It’s a true battleground — it went for President Donald Trump by just over 1 percentage point in 2024 — that will be vital to Democrats’ bid to flip the lower chamber in November. Sunrise Movement co-founder William Lawrence is rising in the polls , as two more-moderate Democrats fight over the future of that wing of the party and in turn risk splitting the vote. Whoever emerges from the primary will face GOP Rep. Tom Barrett. Lawrence has received the backing of Sanders and El-Sayed and has centered much of his campaign on fighting data centers , an issue progressives think they can own in the run-up to 2028, when they’re betting the rapid rise of artificial intelligence will make policies around its growth crucial to a winning campaign. The prospect of progressive wins in the battlegrounds has already unnerved some centrist Democrats: “If he wins, we’re done,” one operative told POLITICO recently, describing Lawrence’s chances of beating Barrett in the general election as “highly unlikely.” Others warn that even without a sweep, having El-Sayed atop the ticket alone could be a boon for Republicans up and down the ballot in a deeply purple state. Centrists are “quite concerned and they should be,” said Michigan-based Democratic strategist Adrian Hemond. “Regardless of whether Will [Lawrence] wins that primary or not, if Abdul is the Senate nominee for Democrats, [Republican Reps.] Tom Barrett and Bill Huizenga are getting reelected.” Democratic splits roil safe-blue 13th District Michigan’s 13th District has become another proxy between the party’s progressive and establishment wings, this time for a safe-blue seat. The race pits the Sanders-backed state Rep. Donavan McKinney against the incumbent Rep. Shri Thanedar, who has the support of House Democratic leaders Hakeem Jeffries, Katherine Clark and Pete Aguilar. Watch: The Conversation The lesson Democrats could learn from MAGA The divide burst further into public view last week when some members of the Congressional Black Caucus, including progressive Reps. Ilhan Omar (Minn.) and Ayanna Pressley (Mass.), broke with party leadership and endorsed McKinney, who is Black. Thanedar’s district was one of the first that Justice Democrats , a progressive group that challenges incumbents, decided to target this year. The group helped recruit McKinney and has spent nearly $1 million backing him. “When we look at Michigan, its diverse voter base, its status as a Midwestern state with a big working class population, it’s a barometer of where the party is going and what voters want,” said Ravi Mangla, the spokesperson for the Working Families Party, a progressive group that has backed Lawrence and McKinney’s challenge of Thanedar. Republicans, meanwhile, are eagerly watching on. “The popcorn machine is warming up for next Tuesday night’s grand finale of Michigan Democrats’ messy, expensive primaries full of surging socialists,” NRCC spokesperson Zach Bannon said in a statement. Lisa Kashinsky and Meredith Lee Hill contributed to this report. [@portabletext/vue] Unknown block type "most-read", specify a component for it in the `components.types` prop Related Tags Senate: Michigan Michigan Bernie Sanders Abdul El-Sayed Loading POLITICO Forecast Global power is in flux. Your daily guide to what comes next. Email By signing up, you acknowledge and agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service . You may unsubscribe at any time by following the directions at the bottom of the email or by contacting us here . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign Up * All fields must be completed to subscribe About Us Advertising Breaking News Alerts Careers Credit Card Payments FAQ Feedback Headlines Photos Press Request A Correction Write For Us RSS Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information and Opt Out of Targeted Advertising © 2026 POLITICO LLC