SpaceX: What can scientists learn from a Falcon 9 rocket hitting the Moon? - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat US & Canada What can scientists learn from a stray SpaceX rocket hitting the Moon? Image source, Reuters Image caption, The last time it was confirmed that part of a rocket had collided with the Moon by accident was in 2022 By Pallab Ghosh Science Correspondent Published 5 August 2026, 12:19 BST A stray SpaceX rocket is believed to have crashed into the Moon, forming a crater near a famous lunar landmark and giving scientists a unique research opportunity that could help future missions. The empty upper stage of a Falcon 9 rocket was due to strike the Moon near the Einstein crater at a speed of about 5,400mph (8,700km/h) on Wednesday. The short, dramatic flash it created would have been hard to catch by amateur astronomers even with high-end telescopes, but larger observatories in the Americas are analysing the information. It could be days or even weeks before the full picture of what happened and what we can learn from it is known - but for planetary geologists, this accidental collision is a scientific gift. Figure caption, Watch: Science Museum's head of space on what scientists will look for after crash Space X's Falcon 9 rocket is a reusable model and has been sent into space on several missions. Its design allows part of the rocket to return to Earth, but other sections are shed in space. The rocket blasted off from Florida in January last year, carrying two lunar landers into space. Its job was to fire the upper stage hard enough to send both of the landers out of Earth's orbit and onto a path towards the Moon - mission accomplished. The spent stage - which is about the size of a five-storey building and weighs at least 4,000kg - was left drifting in a long, looping orbit that swung out towards the Moon and back again. Over the next 18 months, the gentle gravitational tug of the Earth, Moon and Sun, along with even light from the Sun, gave a faint push. Astronomers tracking the rocket part eventually worked out that those small nudges had put it on a course towards the Moon and was picking up speed every day. The impact at around 07:35 BST (06:35 GMT) on Wednesday happened in broad daylight for many parts of the world, but the tiny flash it produced would have been far too faint to see, even through a telescope. Amateur astronomers observing in darkness would also have had little realistic chance of seeing the flash, given that it would have lasted a fraction of a second and occured on a part of the Moon bathed in daylight. And so it may also have been hard for them to see a plume of dust stretching as far as 100km (62 miles) that lasted for several minutes. Even spacecraft orbiting the Moon were not in the right place at the right time to watch the impact happen live. South Korea's Danuri orbiter had the best chance, having passed near the crash site shortly beforehand. Its team has told Korean media that any footage will only be released once researchers have completed their analysis. Over the next few days, Nasa's Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter will be in position to photograph the site, allowing images before and after the crash to be compared. Image source, NASA Image caption, The Einstein crater is over 180km (112 miles) wide, and is large enough to contain a smaller crater inside The science and probably the first images might come from powerful telescopes in the Americas where the sky was still dark. Even then, turning the detection of a 14m object hitting a daylight part of the lunar surface i385,000km away won't be easy but not impossible. Image processing to clean up the picture can take hours, days or even weeks, as scientists check and process the data. But the sight of the new crater from the orbiting spacecraft will be eagerly anticipated. Because researchers already know the rocket's exact size, speed and point of impact, this collision turns from being a random accident into a rare, controlled experiment. It is a dream moment for planetary scientists because it lets them test their models of how impacts dig out craters, throw debris across the surface, and send tremors through the Moon's interior. That has real practical value. Understanding how much rock and dust an impact throws up will help engineers design safer landers and future Moon bases, working out how far flying debris can travel and how hard the ground might shake nearby. Material thrown up from beneath the surface offers fresh clues about the Moon's geology, adding to what scientists already know about how the Earth-Moon system formed some 4.5 billion years ago. This is not the first time a human-made object has struck the Moon. Since 1959, dozens of spacecraft have crashed into it, some by accident and many deliberately for science. The Soviet probe Luna 2 was the first, followed over the decades by Nasa's Ranger probes in the 1960s, several Apollo-era rocket stages, and more recently the LCROSS mission in 2009, which was deliberately crashed to search for water ice. The last confirmed accidental impact , in 2022, was thought to be the leftover booster from a Chinese lunar mission launched back in 2014 - a reminder that this sort of space debris has been quietly piling up above our heads for well over half a century. Figure caption, The space junk clean-up! Related topics Space exploration Nasa The Moon SpaceX More on this story What will happen when a SpaceX rocket collides with the Moon? Published 1 day ago Abandoned rocket 'hits the Moon' - scientists Published 4 March 2022 The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia 0:50 Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea. 00:00:50, play video Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea 1:01 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller. 00:01:01, play video 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:49 Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales. 00:00:49, play video Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales 0:59 The city closing down streets so children can play. 00:00:59, play video The city closing down streets so children can play 1:23 The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII. 00:01:23, play video The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII 1:30 What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK. 00:01:30, play video What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK 0:37 Crispy butter beans with whipped feta. 00:00:37, play video Crispy butter beans with whipped feta 0:57 Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites. 00:00:57, play video Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport Top stories Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate Published 1 hour ago Infantino remains Fifa president after executive meeting Published 27 minutes ago Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London Published 5 hours ago More to explore The cost of being single – and how friends are teaming up to beat it From flip flops to fisherman's sandals: How to look after your feet this summer 'My grandmother subjected my baby to female genital mutilation behind my back' 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' Kate Nash on Irish history, heritage and covering Sinéad O'Connor There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media 'This year has been the worst for my heat anxiety' Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Love shouldn't feel like fear How hydrated do you really need to be? Melvin Odoom on the MiniDiscs he can't throw away The origin story of the first Comic Con Most read 1 Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London 2 University of Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 3 El-Sayed's victory sends tremors through Democratic Party 4 See the Sun like never before with most detailed images yet 5 Iran says it has agreed Strait of Hormuz shipping route with Oman 6 Family 'devastated' by death of girl, 9, as man charged with murder 7 Student loan repayment rates an 'unsustainable burden', chancellor told 8 Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate 9 Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England 10 Apology after carer fed dog food to elderly woman by mistake BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.