Khanna to introduce 'Data Center Bill of Rights' in AI power plants fight Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Politics & Policy Khanna to introduce 'Data Center Bill of Rights' as fight over AI power plants heats up Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 5:30 AM EDT Garrett Downs @in/garrettmdowns/ @_garrettdowns WATCH LIVE Key Points Rep. Ro Khanna, D-Calif., is introducing what he calls a "data center bill of rights" as voters nationwide recoil from potential utility rate hikes by the facilities that power artificial intelligence. The resolution, shared first with CNBC, would establish a set of authorities for local communities to reject the construction of data centers. It comes amid a crush of other legislative efforts to slow data center development over concerns they will add to the already high cost of living. Michigan Democratic Senate candidate Abdul El-Sayed, who won a competitive primary Tuesday and was endorsed by Khanna, has supported state and local moratoriums on data centers unless federal guardrails are in place. U.S. Rep. Ro Khanna, D-Calif., speaks during a National Press Club Headliners Newsmaker event in Washington, April 14, 2026. Alex Wong | Getty Images Rep. Ro Khanna is introducing what he calls a " data center bill of rights" as voters nationwide recoil from potential utility rate hikes by the facilities that power artificial intelligence . Khanna, D-Calif., who is widely expected to run for president in 2028, said the resolution would give local communities "the right to say no" to data centers. Khanna recently traveled to Pennsylvania, where he said he heard feedback on data centers. "The biggest feedback I heard was in opposition to these data centers across the state," he told CNBC. "We need a data center bill of rights where communities don't have these data centers shoved down their throat, where they can stand up and say no and where they can make sure these aren't going in farmland or residential communities." The resolution, shared exclusively with CNBC, would establish a set of rights for local communities to reject data center construction. It comes amid a crush of other legislative efforts to slow data center development over concerns they will add to the already high cost of living. Those authorities Khanna proposes include empowering communities to bar data centers from being built within 2,500 feet of homes, schools, childcare facilities, hospitals or nursing homes; ensuring the ability to reject any proposed data center through a transparent community process; and maintaining a state's ability to adopt statewide pauses on new data centers until the state approves protections that stop ratepayers from rising electricity bills and prevent the draining of local water supplies. Several states, including New York , have already implemented moratoriums on data centers. Read more CNBC politics coverage Khanna to introduce ‘Data Center Bill of Rights’ as fight over AI power plants heats up Kids Online Safety Act social media safety bill advances in Senate Trump admin refunds $100 billion in ‘liberation day’ tariffs The resolution would also preserve the ability of communities and municipalities to regulate data center development without being preempted states, require data centers to use clean and reliable energy and meets pollution limits and allow communities to demand utility bills do not increase. Data centers face a political reckoning across the U.S. ahead of the midterm elections , which will determine who controls Congress for the remainder of President Donald Trump 's term. The buildings —critical to the AI boom driving intense investment — have repelled voters due to their massive energy and water demand. Data center opponents have also recently won big at the polls. Michigan Democratic Senate candidate Abdul El-Sayed , who won a competitive primary Tuesday and was endorsed by Khanna, has supported state and local moratoriums on data centers unless federal guardrails are in place. Khanna, who represents Silicon Valley, said the hyperscalers building data centers are "losing the country. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by