Tour de France Femmes: Kimberley Le Court wins stage six as Marlen Reusser retains yellow jersey - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Cycling Results Calendar Le Court wins stage six of Tour after mechanical failure Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Kimberley Le Court now has two Tour de France Femmes stage victories in her career Published 4 hours ago Kimberley Le Court overcame a mechanical failure before winning a sprint finish to seal victory in stage six of the Tour de France Femmes on Thursday, as Swiss rider Marlen Reusser held on to the overall lead. Le Court of AG Insurance-Soudal, who also crashed early on in the stage, was forced her to change bike just 15 km from the end. The Mauritian fought her way back into contention shortly before the day's final climb, forming part of a small eight-rider breakaway group 10 km from the finish. Le Court, 30, had just enough performance left to launch a sprint with 300m to go, holding off French rider Cedrine Kerbaol on the line to seal victory, with Puck Pieterse of the Netherlands taking third place. Movistar's Reusser retains the yellow jersey after the 153.4km ride from Montbrison to Tournon-sur-Rhone, holding a 12-second lead over Dutch rider Demi Vollering. Friday's stage seven - the queen stage - on the nine-stage event is 146.8km from La Voulte-sur-Rhone to the summit finish at the famous Mont Ventoux in the French Alps. This was Le Court's second stage victory in the Tour de France Femmes following her win in stage five last year from Chasseneuil-du-Poitou to Gueret. Le Court said her team was "amazing" during her bike change, adding: "They brought me back slowly but surely to the bunch, and I got back on top of the [second-to] last climb, which was a really big effort. "Then I just tried to stay patient and recover from this big effort. "I had to close the gap myself and I was really, really dead, I was on the limit. I can't believe I still had the legs to sprint." More Than the Score podcast: Is Tadej Pogacar unstoppable? Tour de France Femmes stage six results 1. Kim Le Court (Mau, AG Insurance-Soudal) 4hours, 1 minute and 48 seconds 2. Cedrine Kerbaol (Fra, EF Education-Oatly) same time 3. Puck Pieterse (Ned, Fenix-Premier Tech) 4. Sarah Van Dam (Can, Visma-Lease A Bike) 5. Celia Gery (Fra, FDJ United-Suez) 6. Liana Lippert (Ger, Movistar) 7. Elisa Longo Borghini (Ita, UAE Team L'Imad) +2secs 8. Riejanne Markus (Ned, Lidl-Trek) +5secs 9. Dominika Wlodarczyk (Pol, UAE Team L'Imad) +28secs 10. Noemi Ruegg (EF Education-Oatly) Tour de France Femmes general classification after stage six 1. Marlen Reusser (Swi/Movistar) 19hrs 43mins 34secs 2. Demi Vollering (Ned/FDJ–Suez) +12secs 3. Kasia Niewiadoma (Pol/Canyon–SRAM) +1min 17secs 4. Elisa Longo Borghini (Ita/UAE Team-L'imad) +2min 28secs 5. Antonia Niedermaier (Ger/Canyon–SRAM) +2min 40secs 6. Dominika Wlodarczyk (Pol/UAE Team-L'imad) +2min 54secs 7. Isabella Holmgren (Can/Lidl-Trek) +3mins 5secs 8. Cedrine Kerbaol (Fra/EF Education-Oatly) +3min 7secs 9. Kim Le Court (Mau, AG Insurance-Soudal) +3mins 26secs 10. Paula Blasi (Spa/UAE Team ADQ) +3min 51secs Related topics Cycling Shorts Previous Next 0:44 Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup. 00:00:44, play video Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup 1:11 The incredible story of Yan Diomande. 00:01:11, play video The incredible story of Yan Diomande 1:06 'Athletes should speak up if they're struggling' 00:01:06, play video 'Athletes should speak up if they're struggling' 0:57 Curran and Ahmed still in England Test plans - North. 00:00:57, play video Curran and Ahmed still in England Test plans - North 0:32 Thousands welcome World Cup hero Vozinha in Chile. 00:00:32, play video Thousands welcome World Cup hero Vozinha in Chile 1:19 Afghan women's team can play again after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team can play again after ban 0:41 Rush emotional at exhibition honouring career. 00:00:41, play video Rush emotional at exhibition honouring career 1:20 Memes, burgers and Danny Dyer - British runners come clean. 00:01:20, play video Memes, burgers and Danny Dyer - British runners come clean 0:39 How Smalling went from A-levels to Premier League. 00:00:39, play video How Smalling went from A-levels to Premier League 1:22 Be your 'biggest cheerleader' - positive advice from Amy Hunt. 00:01:22, play video Be your 'biggest cheerleader' - positive advice from Amy Hunt 0:25 'I've been really impressed with him' - Arteta on O'Neill. 00:00:25, play video 'I've been really impressed with him' - Arteta on O'Neill 0:46 Chelsea's 16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli. 00:00:46, play video Chelsea's 16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli 1:15 How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? 00:01:15, play video How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? Top stories Vinicius Jr and Real Madrid agree new six-year deal Published 4 hours ago Uefa says boycott may still go ahead as FA withdraws Infantino support Published 5 hours ago Trafford joins Leeds from Man City in potential £45m deal Published 3 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC 'I said maybeeee...' Aviation is being reimagined for the changing planet A new high-stakes thriller crackling with danger Did Fenners score the first ever goal at the new Wembley Stadium? Elsewhere in Sport Players who turned World Cup heroics into big transfers A wanted man - but would Liverpool's Gakpo be a good fit at Spurs? Weekly sports quiz: Beckham at the Commonwealth Games? Newcastle appoint Jaissle - what should fans expect? Rockets march on after easy win against Phoenix. Video Rockets march on after easy win against Phoenix Lines to be first British woman in America's Cup team for 90 years How Buttler became T20 cricket's run-scoring GOAT Chelsea lose friendly as Juventus score stunning winner. Video Chelsea lose friendly as Juventus score stunning winner Why Liverpool are ready to make Barcola third £100m signing No WSL experience but who is new Man Utd boss Olid? Why £1m-a-season deal will be hard for Pollock and Hearn to find A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season Why we are still waiting for the 'Newey effect' - F1 Q&A The summer that changed Welsh football The ex-sandwich maker who cycles to Champions League games How Mumbai Indians takeover has affected MI London & Surrey Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.