SpaceX passed a key test Thursday. Sophisticated traders bet the bottom is in Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Options Action Options Action SpaceX shares passed a key test Thursday. Now sophisticated traders are betting the bottom may be in Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 3:25 PM EDT Oliver Renick @OJRenick WATCH LIVE In this article SPCX Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT SpaceX employees celebrate the market close of the SpaceX initial public offering (IPO) at the Nasdaq Marketsite on June 12, 2026, in New York City. Spencer Platt | Getty Images SpaceX believers are trying a new approach in the options market. Up until now, options flows were largely dominated by out-of-the-money call-buying, but the most popular directional trade on Thursday – albeit by a small margin – was selling puts. Of the $600 million in premium traded by midday, $316 million was in puts, with $166 million likely tied to sales of puts, SpotGamma data show. It's a bullish view, but more about the stock stabilizing rather than staging a huge rally. SpaceX shares in the past five trading days For the most part, volumes were split between puts and calls Thursday, but two of the biggest dollar-amount trades of the day were bullish combination trades that involved multimillion-dollar put sales alongside long call purchases – a structure known as a risk reversal that offers two points of bullish exposure: short a put and long a call. Shortly after the opening bell, someone collected a net $7.7 million million selling $12 million of the 90-strike puts expiring in June next year then bought $4.3 million worth of the 220-strike calls expiring the same date. It's effectively a bet that SpaceX won't be down another 20% ten months from now, with an additional wager that the stock could double. A smaller version of the same type of trade went off later in the afternoon when someone sold $3.5 million worth of 75-strike puts expiring in January 2028, then bought the same number of 185-strike calls of the same expiry. This time, the calls – worth $5 million – cost more than the puts brought in, meaning the trade was done at a debit. While relentless bullish call-buying in SpaceX options since their debut has so far been a contrarian indicator, these two big, unmistakably bullish trades that involve selling options – a tactic favored by bigger-money players – suggest some sophisticated traders think the stock might be finding a bottom. A quick look at the stock chart arguably adds technical evidence. SpaceX shares made a new low on Monday — a day before reporting earnings — but they have mostly traded close to $110 since July 23. Momentum to the downside has also slowed, with the 14-day relative strength index bottoming late last month and implied volatility falling to the lowest since June 30. There's also the fact shares are up on the day the first insider lock-up period is ending – an event many thought would lead to fresh selling of SpaceX stock. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. More In Options Action watch now watch now VIDEO 01:49 Options Action: SpaceX volume soar watch now watch now VIDEO 01:01 Options Action: Options traders split on energy watch now watch now VIDEO 02:28 Options Action: 911M SpaceX shares hit market Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by