Trump issues new executive orders aimed at birthright citizenship after Supreme Court ruling - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Politics Trump issues new executive orders aimed at birthright citizenship after Supreme Court ruling By Kathryn Watson , Kathryn Watson Politics Reporter Kathryn Watson is a politics reporter for CBS News Digital, based in Washington, D.C. Read Full Bio Kathryn Watson , Joe Walsh Joe Walsh Senior Editor, Politics Joe Walsh is a senior editor for digital politics at CBS News. Joe previously covered breaking news for Forbes and local news in Boston. Read Full Bio Joe Walsh Updated on: August 6, 2026 / 8:15 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Washington — President Trump on Thursday signed two executive orders in his latest effort to refuse citizenship to some children born in the United States, after the Supreme Court struck down his earlier executive order aiming to end birthright citizenship. "We had a very unfortunate decision in the Supreme Court concerning birthright, it was close," Mr. Trump said in an Oval Office signing on Thursday. "But a very, very unfortunate decision. So we're making adjustments." One order the president signed Thursday targets people who engage in commercial "birth tourism" by seeking to deny them access to the country. The other expands the definitions of people that it states are ineligible for birthright citizenship, such as children of foreign citizens who lobby on behalf of foreign governments. "This has been something that people have talked about, not only for years, but for decades," White House deputy chief of staff Stephen Miller said of "birth tourism." "The idea that people come here pretending to be a tourist, pretending to be a visitor, saying they want to go to Disneyland or they want to go visit a monument or go to a national park, but the real reason they're here is to have a child, to make that child an automatic citizen, leave our country, and then have a U.S. citizen child," Miller said. "It gives them access, under this broken system, to welfare benefits, ultimately to the voting booth, and all the other rights and privileges that belong solely to Americans." One of the orders lists out several categories of people who it says should not be granted citizenship documents, including the children of people who engaged "in a commercial transaction to ensure that the person's mother is present in the United States, or a territory of the United States, to give birth." Also listed are children whose parents belong to terrorist groups, children of foreign government employees and children who were born in a U.S. territory "where citizenship is not conferred by Federal statute." The order does not apply to people with at least one parent who is a citizen. Currently, the children of foreign diplomats already are not eligible for citizenship by birth, though Thursday's order might expand the number of people who fall under that exception to birthright citizenship. Meanwhile, people who were born in U.S. territories like Puerto Rico are currently deemed citizens under federal law . President Trump holds up a newly signed executive order in the Oval Office, alongside deputy chief of staff Stephen Miller, left, and Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick, on Aug. 6, 2026. Jim WATSON /AFP via Getty Images Axios first reported Mr. Trump would be signing the orders. The 14th Amendment, ratified in 1868, states "all persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the state wherein they reside." Mr. Trump has long voiced his frustration with birthright citizenship, and he and his allies have sought to make the case that the amendment was only intended to address the aftermath of slavery. "This was done right after the Civil War," Mr. Trump said Thursday. "This was for the babies of slaves." The Supreme Court ruled 6-3 that the president's first executive order, which he issued on his first day in office in 2025, was unlawful and out of step with the 14th Amendment. Asked if he thinks these new executive orders will pass constitutional muster, the president said, "I think it will." The American Civil Liberties Union condemned the executive order and predicted it would fail in court. "The Supreme Court already decided this issue: Birthright citizenship is guaranteed by the Constitution. No additional executive order can change the meaning of the Constitution. Any executive order that tries to rewrite birthright citizenship will meet the same fate as the last one," Cody Wofsy, deputy director of the ACLU's Immigrants' Rights Project, said in a statement. "Birth tourism" came up during Supreme Court oral arguments . In regard to that issue, Chief Justice John Roberts told the U.S. solicitor general, John Sauer, "You do agree that that has no impact on the legal analysis before us." Sauer said that such tourism is evidence of the negative effects of the prevailing interpretation of the Citizenship Clause. "We're in a new world now … where 8 billion people are one plane ride away from having a child who is a U.S. citizen," Sauer said. "Well, it's a new world. It's the same Constitution," Roberts replied. Melissa Quinn contributed to this report. More from CBS News Where the Trump administration's lawsuits seeking voter data stand Behind closed doors, Trump, White House aides hope Rep. Max Miller exits race Pirro brought box of evidence to show Trump what caused Reflecting Pool damage White House declassifies info on secret FBI probe into Trump's firing of Comey Go deeper with The Free Press Trump Will Lose on Birthright Citizenship—but an Immigration Win Is Coming Trump Is Attacking the Supreme Court. That Only Makes It Stronger. In: Birthright Citizenship © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Trump signs new birthright citizenship orders Trump doubles down on fight against birthright citizenship with new executive orders 01:19 Trump doubles down on fight against birthright citizenship with new executive orders (01:19) Where the Trump administration's lawsuits seeking voter data stand Behind closed doors, Trump, White House aides hope Rep. Max Miller exits race Pirro brought box of evidence to show Trump what caused Reflecting Pool damage Trump Will Lose on Birthright Citizenship—but an Immigration Win Is Coming Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue