Dinghy carrying 173 people capsizes in Channel after engine catches fire | UK news | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland People disembark from a French rescue ship after their boat caught fire during an attempt to cross the Channel from France. Photograph: Sameer Al-Doumy/AFP/Getty Images View image in fullscreen People disembark from a French rescue ship after their boat caught fire during an attempt to cross the Channel from France. Photograph: Sameer Al-Doumy/AFP/Getty Images UK news Dinghy carrying 173 people capsizes in Channel after engine catches fire All passengers thought to have been taken to Boulogne after large air and sea rescue operation by France and UK Diane Taylor Tue 4 Aug 2026 13.52 EDT First published on Tue 4 Aug 2026 06.38 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google A dinghy carrying 173 people has capsized after its engine caught fire as it attempted to cross the Channel from France . The people onboard were rescued from the water after a large air and sea operation was launched using UK border security and French vessels along with an RNLI boat. According to French authorities there were initially 173 people onboard but five were rescued overnight in an earlier incident and taken back to Boulogne. The rest of the passengers said they wanted to continue their journey. The dingy was carrying the highest number of people so far this year. A boat that arrived on 23 July was carrying 165 passengers. A coastguard spokesperson said: “A vessel caught fire earlier this morning whilst in the French search and rescue region. UK vessels and a lifeboat are assisting.” An RNLI spokesperson said Eastbourne’s all-weather lifeboat launched at 6am on Tuesday. View image in fullscreen The people rescued from the dinghy board a bus after disembarking from the French rescue ship. Photograph: Sameer Al-Doumy/AFP/Getty Images The Calais préfet said 40 firefighters and a specialised medical team were involved in the incident. Eleven people suffered minor injuries and three were taken to hospital in Boulogne. On Monday, Reform UK proposed using the Royal Navy to return people to France or Belgium under a plan they called “operation fortress”. The party has described the scheme as a humanitarian response. Last week, four people died on overcrowded boats trying to cross the Channel. Smugglers are using increasingly dangerous techniques in response to successive UK government clampdowns to stop crossings. They are also launching boats from parts of the French coast that are farther away from the UK in the hope of evading French police interceptions. The boat on Tuesday reportedly left from Dieppe, about 70 miles (112km) from the UK compared with the Calais to Dover route of 27 miles. The new prime minister, Andy Burnham , has promised to continue working to stop the crossings, although more than 2,000 people have crossed the Channel since he became prime minister. The government has put a number of deterrents in place to stop crossings, but desperate people continue to get into increasingly dangerous dinghies. 1:22 Andy Burnham promises to be relentless in tackling small boat crossings – video According to a statement issued by French authorities on Tuesday, the people in the boat initially refused an offer of assistance. “Given the structural fragility of the overcrowded boats, the decision was made not to force the migrants to board state rescue vessels, to avoid endangering their lives in the event of a shipwreck,” the statement read. All 173 people have now been returned to Boulogne. Explore more on these topics UK news Migration France Andy Burnham Immigration and asylum news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Sudanese woman and 16-year-old girl reportedly die trying to cross Channel 3 May 2026 Man arrested after four die trying to cross Channel in small boat 10 Apr 2026 Four people die in Channel small-boat sinking 9 Apr 2026 Deaths of 22 children in Channel due to ‘catastrophic failure’ by UK and France, NGO says 28 Feb 2026 Loss of life was avoidable in worst small boat disaster in Channel, inquiry finds 5 Feb 2026 Two people die attempting to cross Channel in dinghy 21 May 2025 One person dead after small boat sinks in Channel, French authorities say 19 May 2025 UK access to EU crime and illegal migration data reportedly denied 5 May 2025 Man confirmed dead after crossing Channel in small boat 18 Apr 2025 Many victims of Channel dinghy tragedy could have been saved, inquiry lawyers say 17 Mar 2025 Most viewed Most viewed UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)