England recall Pope and Lawrence for Pakistan Tests - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Cricket Scores & Fixtures Tables England Men England Women Counties The Hundred All Teams England recall Pope and Lawrence for Pakistan Tests Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Ollie Pope averages 34.55 in 64 Tests for England By Elizabeth Botcherby BBC Sport journalist Published 6 August 2026, 10:00 BST Updated 4 minutes ago Surrey duo Ollie Pope and Dan Lawrence have been recalled to the England squad for the first two Tests against Pakistan. The pair have been named in a 16-man squad before the series opener at Headingley on Wednesday 19 August but Jacob Bethell will miss the entire series through injury, with Jordan Cox to be promoted to number three. The three-match series marks England's first Test outing since the retirement of captain Ben Stokes and sacking of head coach Brendon McCullum. Joe Root will captain the side for the first time since being reappointed to the role in July , with Marcus Trescothick serving as interim head coach. McCullum's replacement, Stephen Fleming, will begin his tenure against South Africa in December. ——————————————————— England's 16-man squad for the first two Tests against Pakistan: Joe Root (c), Jofra Archer, Gus Atkinson, Shoaib Bashir, Harry Brook, Brydon Carse, Sam Cook, Jordan Cox, Ben Duckett, Matthew Fisher, Emilio Gay, Dan Lawrence, Ollie Pope, Ollie Robinson, Jamie Smith, Josh Tongue. ——————————————————— Lawrence, who earned the last of his 14 Test caps in September 2024, is rewarded for his domestic form. The 29-year-old is the second-highest run-scorer in Division One of the County Championship, with 788 runs at 65.66, including five centuries, in 13 innings. He is slated to bat at six, filling a middle-order vacancy created by Stokes' retirement, but is far from a like-for-like replacement for the former captain. Only Gus Atkinson (79 wickets) has taken more Test wickets for England than Stokes (78) since the start of June 2022. Lawrence, who bowls right-arm off-spin, has taken nine wickets from 178.2 overs in the County Championship this season. Former vice-captain Pope was replaced by Bethell at number three for the final two Ashes Tests in Australia following an extended period of poor form and was subsequently dropped from the squad against New Zealand. Like Lawrence, he has performed well in the County Championship, scoring 510 runs at 56.66, including five 50+ knocks, for Surrey, but will not automatically slot back into the side in Bethell's absence. Bethell suffered a knee injury during the ODI series against India in July and is set to be replaced by Cox, who made his Test debut against New Zealand at The Oval. England's men's national selector, Marcus North, said: "We have selected a squad for the first two Tests that balances rising talent with the experience needed against a quality Pakistan team. "Dan Lawrence returns following an exceptional season so far with Surrey and we believe he has the right level of experience, maturity and skill to complement our middle order. "Jordan Cox is well regarded as one of the most exciting talents in English cricket and will have the opportunity to bat at three in place of Jacob Bethell, who sadly misses this series through injury." Essex's Sam Cook returns to the squad for the first time since last summer. The 29-year-old seamer made his international debut against Zimbabwe in May 2025 and was named in the squad for the five-match series against India but did not feature. Brydon Carse returns after a broken wrist ruled him out of the Indian Premier League and the start of the Test summer while England are sticking with spinner Shoaib Bashir, who featured in the first and third Tests against New Zealand after being overlooked during the Ashes. 'No brave new world for England' Analysis by BBC cricket reporter Henry Moeran For those who were hoping for a brave new world, there may be disappointment. This is a squad with plenty of familiar faces and no potential debutants. Ollie Pope and Brydon Carse return for the first time since the Ashes and Dan Lawrence is selected two years on from his last Test appearance The big question was who was going to replace Ben Stokes as the all-rounder but that much isn't entirely obvious. There is no place for Sam Curran, James Coles or Rehan Ahmed, who is dropped, which means Lawrence, if selected, might find his part-time spin plays a significant role. Related topics Cricket England Men's Cricket Team Surrey Pakistan More on this story How Buttler became T20 cricket's run-scoring GOAT Published 14 hours ago I'd like Hundred to be longer - Salt Published 11 hours ago Who am I? Guess The Hundred cricket star No 17 Published 2 hours ago Shorts Previous Next 0:32 Thousands welcome World Cup hero Vozinha in Chile. 00:00:32, play video Thousands welcome World Cup hero Vozinha in Chile 0:39 How Smalling went from A-levels to Premier League. 00:00:39, play video How Smalling went from A-levels to Premier League 0:46 Chelsea's 16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli. 00:00:46, play video Chelsea's 16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli 1:15 How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? 00:01:15, play video How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? 0:36 Salah mobbed by fans on arrival for Trabzonspor move. 00:00:36, play video Salah mobbed by fans on arrival for Trabzonspor move 0:38 What is the 'Bra-gate' controversy in cycling? 00:00:38, play video What is the 'Bra-gate' controversy in cycling? 0:30 Wilkinson's Welsh language progress. 00:00:30, play video Wilkinson's Welsh language progress 1:00 What has happened to Kulusevski? 00:01:00, play video What has happened to Kulusevski? 0:23 Why Monga chose Man City over Arsenal. 00:00:23, play video Why Monga chose Man City over Arsenal Top stories England recall Pope and Lawrence for Pakistan Tests Published 4 minutes ago Live . Fifa latest: Infantino remains president after tumultuous period 3708 viewing 3.7k viewing A wanted man - but would Liverpool's Gakpo be a good fit at Spurs? Published 4 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC Superman 1978: The classic superhero blockbuster What did we learn from D4vd's preliminary hearing? Follow police investigations from the 999 call to conviction Undressing the hidden history of underwear Elsewhere in Sport Players who turned World Cup heroics into big transfers A wanted man - but would Liverpool's Gakpo be a good fit at Spurs? Weekly sports quiz: Beckham at the Commonwealth Games? Newcastle appoint Jaissle - what should fans expect? Rockets march on after easy win against Phoenix. Video Rockets march on after easy win against Phoenix Lines to be first British woman in America's Cup team for 90 years How Buttler became T20 cricket's run-scoring GOAT Chelsea lose friendly as Juventus score stunning winner. Video Chelsea lose friendly as Juventus score stunning winner Why Liverpool are ready to make Barcola third £100m signing No WSL experience but who is new Man Utd boss Olid? Why £1m-a-season deal will be hard for Pollock and Hearn to find A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season Why we are still waiting for the 'Newey effect' - F1 Q&A The summer that changed Welsh football The ex-sandwich maker who cycles to Champions League games How Mumbai Indians takeover has affected MI London & Surrey Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.