Drone carrying explosives at German airport marks ‘new level of danger’, says interior minister | Germany | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 3 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development A forensic technician works alongside a bomb disposal robot at Leipzig airport on Wednesday. Photograph: Hendrik Schmidt/DPA/AP View image in fullscreen A forensic technician works alongside a bomb disposal robot at Leipzig airport on Wednesday. Photograph: Hendrik Schmidt/DPA/AP Germany Drone carrying explosives at German airport marks ‘new level of danger’, says interior minister Investigators treating incident as part of ‘professional hybrid threat scenario’, says Alexander Dobrindt The Leipzig drone bomb marks a dangerous escalation for Europe Deborah Cole in Berlin and Andrew Roth in Washington Wed 5 Aug 2026 16.56 EDT First published on Wed 5 Aug 2026 07.37 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Germany’s interior minister has warned that the discovery of a drone carrying explosives at Leipzig airport marks “a new level of danger” for the country, as authorities examine whether the thwarted attack could have been planned by a foreign power. The discovery of a small drone carrying explosives at Leipzig airport, a leading shipping and military hub, set off alarm and caused flight diversions on Wednesday morning. German police deployed a bomb disposal robot to defuse and destroy the explosive device. In public remarks on Wednesday evening, the interior minister, Alexander Dobrindt, said the incident did not appear to be the work of amateurs, and that investigators were treating it as part of a “professional hybrid threat scenario”. “We are dealing here with a competition that may also include foreign powers – this will be part of the investigations – who quite obviously want to contribute to considerable uncertainty in Germany,” Dobrindt said. A DHL cargo plane that had been forced to abort its landing at the airport then collided with an unknown object in mid-air as it was climbing away from the airport. It later landed safely elsewhere. Dobrindt and other German officials did not explicitly mention Russia as a potential suspect in their remarks. But the airport’s status as a Nato and German military logistics hub, as well as the base for Ukraine’s Antonov Airlines in Europe, has directed suspicion toward Russia, which has previously been accused of carrying out sabotage attacks in Europe. Security experts said the incident could amount to a serious escalation in tensions with Russia if it was determined the Kremlin played a role. Investigators said “a drone carrying an unknown explosive device was spotted by an airport employee in the security area of the cargo operations zone near the south runway” of Leipzig airport, a facility classified as “critical infrastructure”. “A suspected second unidentified flying object collided with a cargo aircraft after it had taken off again following the previous closure of the runway. Minor damage was detected on the aircraft after it landed in Hanover,” the investigators said. View image in fullscreen Footage by News5 shows the nose of an Ukrainian Antonov plane at Leipzig-Halle airport. Photograph: News5/AFP/Getty Images A Nato official said: “We are aware of the incident, which the German authorities continue to investigate.” The drone, a quadcopter that was fitted with an explosive device, was found near a Ukrainian Antonov cargo plane, according to media reports. Some of the Ukrainian aircraft are emblazoned with patriotic slogans including “Be Brave Like Kherson” and “Be Brave Like Bucha”, the site of a civilian massacre early in the full-scale Russian invasion. The tabloid Bild speculated that the explosive could have been fabricated ⁠from fertiliser and petrol, while a team from the public broadcasters NDR and WDR, as well as the Süddeutsche newspaper, said the device had contained pentaerythritol tetranitrate, or PETN – a primary ingredient in semtex that belongs to the same chemical family as nitroglycerin. Ukraine’s ambassador to Germany, Oleksii Makeiev, blamed Moscow. “Who else could it be but Russia?” he told the commercial broadcaster Welt TV. Moscow has not commented so far. Konstantin von Notz, the opposition Green party’s spokesperson on intelligence oversight, called for an investigation to be conducted with the utmost urgency and also hinted at possible Russian involvement. “Should it transpire that a state is behind this action, this would constitute not merely terrorism but state terrorism directed against the federal republic of Germany and its citizens,” he told Der Spiegel. Marc Henrichmann, the CDU chair of the German parliament’s intelligence oversight committee, said the latest incident looked like “an attempt to target a company of importance for Ukraine”. If the details are confirmed, it “would represent a new level of escalation in these sorts of attacks”, he told the Rheinische Post newspaper. Several aircraft, including a passenger plane from Mallorca, were diverted because of the incident. Operations in the northern part of the airport resumed two hours later. The southern runway, where the drone was found, remained closed. Police deployed a bomb disposal robot to examine the object. View image in fullscreen German media reported that investigators were examining several possibilities, including that the incident was an attempt by Russia to attack Ukrainian equipment in Germany. Photograph: News5/AFP/Getty Images Police and prosecutors said: “There is no danger to the lives or safety of passengers or airport staff. Passenger air traffic is unaffected.” Germany and other European countries have had a series of suspicious unauthorised drone overflights at airports, military facilities, ports and logistics companies. They have accused Russian agents of being behind some of the flights, which Moscow has denied. Germany is the biggest single national supplier of military aid to Ukraine and has accused Russia of orchestrating a campaign of sabotage, espionage and disinformation against it, which the Kremlin has denied. Last year, a Chinese national was convicted for passing on information about flight schedules and cargo movements at Leipzig/Halle airport to a man spying for Beijing. Separately, Die Zeit reported that Russian secret services were plotting an attack against Stefan Thumann, the head of German drone manufacturer Donaustahl. The report said German investigators were tipped off by a foreign intelligence service at the end of last year and arrested a Ukrainian man and a Romanian woman this spring. Thumann is said to be under police protection. In 2024, US intelligence services reportedly foiled a Russian plot to assassinate the chief executive of Germany’s leading arms manufacturer, an apparent attempt at retaliation over the company’s role in providing a large amount of armaments for Ukraine. The plan to murder Armin Papperger, the chief executive of Rheinmetall, was reportedly one of several Russian government schemes to kill defence industry executives in several countries in Europe that have been supporting Ukraine’s war effort. The plot against Papperger was believed to be the most advanced. Additional reporting by Jakub Krupa Explore more on these topics Germany Drones (military) Air transport Russia Ukraine Europe news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)