Progressive Abdul El-Sayed wins Michigan’s Democratic primary for Senate : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Progressive Abdul El-Sayed wins Michigan’s Democratic primary for Senate El-Sayed, an epidemiologist, backs Medicare for all and decries corporate money in politics. He beat Rep. Haley Stevens, whose supporters said she would have had a better chance in the fall. Politics Progressive Abdul El-Sayed wins Michigan's Democratic primary for Senate August 5, 2026 9:54 AM ET By Maham Javaid People vote in the primary election at Northwestern High School in Detroit, Tuesday. Nic Antaya/AP hide caption toggle caption Nic Antaya/AP Abdul El-Sayed has narrowly won the Democratic nomination for Senate in Michigan, according to a race call by The Associated Press. The result marks a win for the progressive wing of the party, with El-Sayed defeating Rep. Haley Stevens, who had the backing of party centrists. Elections Progressives see biggest win yet in Michigan, while Trump flexes power over GOP Vote counting went through the night and into the morning before the race was decided. Now El-Sayed will face former Rep. Mike Rogers this fall for the Senate seat being vacated by Democratic Sen. Gary Peters. The match up is seen as a must-win for Democrats hoping to retake the chamber from Republican control. "We know that to defeat Trumpism we have to defeat Trump's handpicked candidate," El-Sayed told NPR's Morning Edition shortly before the race was called. Sponsor Message El-Sayed is an epidemiologist and a former health director for Detroit and later the surrounding county. He ran for governor in 2018 but came in second to now-Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, in the primary. His platform includes embracing Medicare for all and cutting the influence of corporate money in politics. During his campaign he highlighted and criticized the money being spent against him by an organization aligned with the pro-Israel lobbying group AIPAC. He attracted the biggest stars on the political left, including Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., and Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., who traveled to Michigan to campaign with him. Elections Here are Michigan's 2026 primary election results El-Sayed does not identify as a socialist and calls himself a capitalist. While he is not endorsed by the Democratic Socialists of America, whose candidates have won races this primary season, he holds some similar positions. He supports abolishing ICE, for example. He was up against Stevens, a four-term congresswoman who flipped a suburban House seat in 2018 and served on the team President Obama tasked with rescuing the auto industry during the 2008-2009 recession. She pledged to fight Trump on his tariffs and rising costs because of the war with Iran and focused on her support for Michigan manufacturing. Stevens' supporters had argued that she would have had a better chance of winning in a purple state in November's general election. Sponsor Message El-Sayed had been leading the polls in the primary contest while Stevens had the money advantage with groups that supported her outspending El-Sayed's on the airwaves by several times, according to AdImpact , an ad-tracking firm . Voters had to decide between two millennial Democrats vying to beat Rogers. The Senate primary became a test of how candidates further left on the political spectrum will fare outside liberal cities where they have won elections earlier this year. Michigan is a swing state. After Joe Biden won Michigan in 2020, Donald Trump carried the state in 2024, even as Democrat Elissa Slotkin narrowly won an open Senate seat that had been held by Democrats. NPR's Sam Gringlas contributed to this story. 2026 midterms 2026 primary elections Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR National 12 dead after skydiving plane crashes in Missouri, authorities say Elections Progressives see biggest win yet in Michigan, while Trump flexes power over GOP Politics 5 states went to the polls Tuesday. Takeaways from the primary elections Health Black lung rates in Appalachia are high as the 1970s, with thousands of miners sick Politics House Ethics Committee will investigate Ohio Republican Max Miller Trump's Terms Trump's third check-up at Walter Reed raises more questions about his health : Trump's Terms More Stories From NPR Consider This from NPR What do Tuesday’s primaries signal about where the Democratic Party is headed? Law Judge reluctantly dismisses case against Oath Keepers militia group over Jan. 6 riot Elections Progressives see biggest win yet in Michigan, while Trump flexes power over GOP National Authorities arrested a man with ammo and apparently monitoring security at Trump golf course near LA Politics House Ethics Committee will investigate Ohio Republican Max Miller News Senate Democrats say banks turned blind eye to suspicious moves by Jeffrey Epstein Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Health Black lung rates in Appalachia are high as the 1970s, with thousands of miners sick Health Dr. Erica Schwartz confirmed as CDC director, filling a leadership vacuum National Arson suspect makes first court appearance as Spokane wildfires rage on It's Been a Minute The questionable new ways to surveil your friends The Indicator from Planet Money How ending TPS is squeezing workers, businesses and (soon) consumers The Indicator from Planet Money Trump’s new Truth Social plan: pay $100K NPR Editors' Picks Asia Ousted Bangladeshi leader vows to return from exile despite facing a death sentence World Cafe How Midwest doldrums became a gift for Kevin Morby Asia Pakistan's ruling party leads in Kashmir vote despite boycott call by banned group Asia Under China's new 'unity' law, Tibetans fight to preserve language and culture Europe A Russian barrage in Ukraine's capital kills 17 as air defenses fall short Your Health Nicotine pouches can be marketed as 'lower risk' than cigarettes. Is that dangerous? Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices