Two Iranian female footballers granted Australian citizenship after protest | Iran women's football team | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Football Live scores Tables Fixtures Results Competitions Clubs Fatemeh Pasandideh (left) and Atefeh Ramezanisadeh with Australia's minister for home affairs, Tony Burke, after receiving citizenship in Brisbane. Photograph: Department of Home Affairs/AP View image in fullscreen Fatemeh Pasandideh (left) and Atefeh Ramezanisadeh with Australia's minister for home affairs, Tony Burke, after receiving citizenship in Brisbane. Photograph: Department of Home Affairs/AP Iran women's football team Two Iranian female footballers granted Australian citizenship after protest Players stayed in country after Asian Cup in March Duo condemned as traitors in Iran for not singing anthem Agence France-Presse Thu 6 Aug 2026 09.38 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 10.42 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Two former Iranian footballers said on Thursday they were proud to have been granted Australian citizenship after being called traitors at home for refusing to sing the national anthem before a game. Fatemeh Pasandideh and Atefeh Ramezanisadeh were members of a group of seven from Iran’s delegation who asked for Australia’s protection after the protest during the women’s Asian Cup in March. Iranian women’s footballers shouldn’t have to choose between their sport and their safety | Nos Hosseini Read more Their demands for protection were an embarrassment for Iran’s leaders, and were lauded by the US president, Donald Trump, but five changed their minds and returned home. Pasandideh and Ramezanisadeh stayed, however, and were granted Australian citizenship at a ceremony on Wednesday, overseen by the minister for home affairs, Tony Burke. “Yesterday was a truly special and unforgettable day for me. I feel proud and deeply grateful to become an Australian citizen,” Ramezanisadeh said. “After everything we’ve been through and all the challenges we faced, this moment means more than words can express,” Pasandideh said. A week after seeking asylum, the pair were pictured smiling and training with Brisbane Roar, who on Wednesday congratulated them. “What they have been through since February is more than most people deal with in a lifetime,” a spokesperson said. “To see them arrive at this point is something everyone here at Brisbane Roar is glad to have had a small part in. Queensland is their home now. If they ever want to pull on a training top and come back out with us, the door will always stay open.” skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Every day Sign up to Australia Sport Get a daily roundup of the latest sports news, features and comment from our Australian sports desk Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion The plight of the rest of the team remains unclear since their return to Iran. Explore more on these topics Iran women's football team Australia sport Iran news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed Football Live scores Tables Fixtures Results Competitions Clubs News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)