Senate approves bill to fund government into December, but House support remains uncertain - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War UFO Files World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War UFO Files World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Politics Senate approves bill to fund government into December, but House support remains uncertain By Kaia Hubbard Kaia Hubbard Politics Reporter Kaia Hubbard is a politics reporter for CBS News Digital, based in Washington, D.C. Read Full Bio Kaia Hubbard Updated on: August 8, 2026 / 8:26 AM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Washington — The Senate approved a continuing resolution on Saturday to keep the government funded through Dec. 11, sending the bill to the House as Congress looks to avoid a government shutdown ahead of the midterm elections this fall. In a 90 to 6 vote, the Senate approved the measure, which would keep the government funded at current levels with some exceptions for six weeks beyond the Sept. 30 end of the fiscal year. It now goes to the House, where lawmakers have pursued a different approach. Before leaving town for its August recess, the House approved a separate continuing resolution that would also fund the government into December. But the GOP-led bill was passed with widespread opposition from Democrats. In the Senate, which has a 60-vote threshold to advance most legislation, GOP leaders pursued a bipartisan approach to the funding extension — acknowledging the need for support across the aisle. Top Republican and Democratic appropriators in the Senate announced on Sunday an agreement on a stopgap funding bill. Democrats touted, among other wins, a provision in the bill closing a loophole preventing the administration from transferring funds to Border Patrol, after they refused to fund immigration enforcement agencies earlier this year. GOP Sen. Susan Collins of Maine, the chair of the Senate Appropriations Committee, praised the stopgap funding measure for avoiding "any poison pills." Democrats had sought additional provisions that could have imperiled its passage. But one provision could still pose hurdles in the House, should it take up the bill when it returns from recess later this month. The bill includes language to temporarily prevent political appointees in the administration from implementing a proposed rule about federal grants. Democrats have warned that the rule will allow the administration to cancel grants and "take even more federal funding hostage," and have sought to permanently ban the rule. But even the temporary ban could cause the measure to lose support among Republicans. If House Speaker Mike Johnson moves forward with the Senate bill, it could pick up support from Democrats to propel it to passage. But whether pressure from members of his own conference pushes him to pursue a different course remains to be seen. The Senate approved the measure as it churned through a number of priorities while preparing to depart for a five-week August recess. The House is set to return from its recess on Aug. 31, at which point the lower chamber will have a matter of weeks to coalesce behind a plan to keep the government funded. For the bulk of lawmakers, following two record breaking government shutdowns within the last 12 months, the appetite for another funding lapse appears low. And with the midterm elections quickly approaching, both sides of the aisle appear inclined to push off the fight for now. More from CBS News Murkowski says she'll vote against Blanche's nomination for attorney general House Democrats targeting 12 new GOP districts, including Lauren Boebert's seat Sherrill enters national political fray with first midterm endorsements Hawaii Rep. Ed Case faces primary challenger and more to watch in today's races Go deeper with The Free Press Nick Fuentes’s Plan to ‘Infiltrate Politics’ and Subvert the GOP Obamacare Could Save the GOP Majority—or Doom It In: United States Senate Politics U.S. House of Representatives © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. CBS News Live CBS News 24/7 Live CBS News 24/7 Murkowski says she'll vote against Blanche's nomination for attorney general House Democrats targeting 12 new GOP districts, including Lauren Boebert's seat Sherrill enters national political fray with first midterm endorsements Nick Fuentes’s Plan to ‘Infiltrate Politics’ and Subvert the GOP Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue