Fox won't renegotiate NFL media rights before 2030 opt-out clause Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Sign up today for the CNBC Sport Newsletter Valuations Leagues Partnerships Media Newsletter Sign-Up Sport Podcast Events CNBC Sport Fox won't renegotiate NFL media rights before current deal expires, CEO Lachlan Murdoch says Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 9:53 AM EDT Updated Thu, Aug 6 2026 1:01 PM EDT Alex Sherman @in/alex-sherman @sherman4949 WATCH LIVE Key Points Fox will not renegotiate with the NFL on a new media rights deal until closer to 2030, when the league can opt out of its current deal. The NFL has held talks with Fox and CBS-parent Paramount on striking a new TV deal that would have the broadcasters pay the league more money in exchange for more guaranteed years of live games. Live NFL games are consistently the most watched programming on television. In this article NFLX GOOGL FOX Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT A Fox Sports camera during the game between the Dallas Cowboys and the Jacksonville Jaguars on December 18, 2022 at TIAA Bank Field in Jacksonville, Florida. David Rosenblum | Icon Sportswire | Getty Images Fox won't negotiate a new NFL media rights deal until closer to 2030, when its current contract with the league expires via an opt-out clause, Chief Executive Officer Lachlan Murdoch said during a Thursday earnings conference call. The NFL has held preliminary discussions with both Fox and CBS-parent Paramount Skydance about reworking the deals to eliminate the league's opt-out clause and raise the cost of the live rights, CNBC previously reported. Fox and CBS own the NFL's Sunday afternoon packages of live game rights. Without the opt out, Fox and Paramount's deals with the league extend until the end of the 2033-34 season. Murdoch said Thursday that those preliminary discussions led Fox to decide it won't strike a new deal. "In advance of the season, we've had a recent thorough and productive discussions with the league, and as a result, we will not be making any amendments to our existing contractual relationship, which extends to the completion of the 2029 season," Murdoch said. "We'll be ready to engage with the NFL on the opt-out seasons and beyond at a date closer to the 2030 season, which has been the customary timetable." The NFL maintains flexibility to renew deals early with its other media partners, including adding new partners, as it has in recent years with YouTube and Netflix . An NFL spokesperson declined to comment on Murdoch's remarks. Get the CNBC Sport newsletter directly to your inbox The CNBC Sport newsletter with Alex Sherman brings you the biggest news and exclusive interviews from the worlds of sports business and media, delivered weekly to your inbox. Subscribe here to get access today . NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell told CNBC last year he felt the league's rights were relatively undervalued compared with other sports. The NBA nearly tripled its media rights revenue with an 11-year, $77 billion deal struck in 2024 . The NFL signed its most recent media rights deal, worth more than $100 billion, in 2021. "I think our partners would want to sit down and talk to us at any time, and we continue to dialogue with them. I like that opportunity," Goodell said in September . "Obviously, it's not going to happen this year. But it could happen as early as next year. That could happen." NFL programming is consistently the most watched on television. Murdoch said Fox's relationship with the NFL "is an incredibly positive one." The NFL had discussed an increase of nearly $1 billion per year in rights costs in early talks with Paramount, CNBC reported earlier this year. In return, the league would guarantee carriage on CBS until 2034. Under the terms of the current contract, the NFL can walk away from the deal with all of its partners except Disney at the end of the 2029-30 season. Disney has one extra year. Disney Chief Financial Officer Hugh Johnston told CNBC earlier this week that the NFL hasn't yet engaged Disney on a new deal. "We really have pretty much all the sports rights that we need locked up into the 2030s. The NFL, you've seen they have commented a few times on reopening that, but they have not talked to us about that. So we'll see how that plays out," Johnston said in an interview. — CNBC's Lillian Rizzo contributed to this report. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. More In CNBC Sport Genius Sports' media surge shows shift beyond sportsbook data Contessa Brewer Fox advertising, streaming service Tubi get boost from World Cup Lillian Rizzo Shaquille O'Neal says WNBA players' treatment of Caitlin Clark is a rite of passage Jessica Golden Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by