Story Short: Lake Powell’s storage capacity updated | Western Livestock Journal Story Short: Lake Powell’s storage capacity updated | Western Livestock Journal Open menu Wednesday, September 2, 2026 Login Subscribe News Markets Beef Community Environment Health/Nutrition Livestock Opinion Policy Viewpoint Publications Western Livestock Journal The Wire Properties Ranch and Farm All Publications Sale Calendar Sale Reports Community Obituaries Youth Opportunities Coming Events About Read WLJ Advertise with us Subscribe to WLJ Search Subscribe to WLJ Account Log in Dark mode Reduce eye strain in low light News Markets Beef Community Environment Health/Nutrition Livestock Opinion Policy Viewpoint Publications Western Livestock Journal The Wire Properties Ranch and Farm All Publications Sale Calendar Sale Reports Community Obituaries Youth Opportunities Coming Events About Advertisement News Story Short: Lake Powell’s storage capacity updated WLJ Mar. 25, 2022 1 minute read Facebook X LinkedIn Copy link Link copied! A new report compiled by the U.S. Geological Survey and the Bureau of Reclamation provides updated information on Lake Powell’s storage capacity. The report confirms Lake Powell has lost 6.79 percent capacity since 1963, when the diversion tunnels of Glen Canyon Dam closed and the reservoir began to fill. The loss is mainly due to sediment transported by the Colorado and San Juan rivers settling on the reservoir bottom. This most recent survey shows the total storage capacity is 25,160,000 acre-feet—a decrease of 1,833,000 acre-feet, or 6.79 percent of storage capacity, from 1963 to 2018. The average annual loss in storage capacity was approximately 33,270 acre-feet per year between 1963 and 2018. Share this article Facebook X LinkedIn Copy link Link copied! Join the Discussion Cancel Reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Keep reading Related stories Environment Negotiations stall as Colorado River crisis looms again Sep 26, 2025 · By Caleb Hampton, Ag Alert editor, California Farm Bureau Environment BOR moves to prop up Lake Powell levels amid drought Apr 24, 2026 · By Charles Wallace Environment Feds release draft Colorado River operations plan Jan 16, 2026 · By Charles Wallace Environment Immediate cuts urged for Colorado River ahead of talks Oct 17, 2025 · By Charles Wallace Environment Coalition petitions feds to curb Colorado River waste Jul 18, 2025 · By Charles Wallace Environment DOI invests $50M into Colorado River Jun 19, 2025 · By WLJ Newsletter Join our newsletter Stay informed with our 10k+ subscribers — daily headlines and ag news in your inbox. Email address Subscribe All newsletters · Privacy policy Sale Calendar Upcoming Events View calendar View event: Labor Day Video Auction Labor Day Video Auction Sep 2, 2026 Today All Breeds Hudson Oaks, TX View event: Vintage Angus Ranch Bull Sale Vintage Angus Ranch Bull Sale Sep 3, 2026 1 day remaining Angus Breeds Bull Sales La Grange, CA View event: Byrd Cattle Co Production Sale Byrd Cattle Co Production Sale Sep 4, 2026 2 days remaining Angus Breeds Bull Sales Female Sales Los Molinos, CA View event: Dunipace Angus Ranch & Bar KJ Bull Sale Dunipace Angus Ranch & Bar KJ Bull Sale Sep 5, 2026 3 days remaining Angus Breeds Bull Sales Farmington, CA View event: Heritage Bull Sale Heritage Bull Sale Sep 6, 2026 4 days remaining Angus Breeds Bull Sales Sloughhouse, CA From the newsroom Latest News USDA launches Harvest to Hallways initiative USDA is launching an initiative to bring more locally produced food into schools while investing in cafeteria equipment and nutrition research. Aug 28, 2026 · 1 minute read Agri Star resumes production after fire Agri Star Meat and Poultry resumed limited production during the week of Aug. 17 following a fire at its Postville, IA, processing plant. Aug 28, 2026 · 1 minute read RAAA to move headquarters to Oklahoma The Red Angus Association of America is moving its headquarters from Commerce City, CO, to the Oklahoma City, OK, area following a unanimous board vote in June. Aug 28, 2026 · 1 minute read Advertisement Read the latest digital edition of WLJ . August 31, 2026 Open digital edition All WLJ digital editions The nation's leading source of livestock and agriculture news since 1922 . Subscribe Advertise Links News Classifieds Properties Livestock Tours Sale Calendar Publications Newsletters Company About us Contact Advertise with WLJ 2025 Media Kit Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Stay connected © 2026 Western Livestock Journal. All rights reserved. 6021 S Syracuse Way, Suite 103, Greenwood Village, CO We use cookies We use cookies to run the site and, with your consent, for preferences, analytics, and marketing (Google, Meta, TikTok). Read our Privacy Policy . Reject all also opts you out of sale/share of personal information. Reject all Customize Accept all Cookie settings Cookie preferences Choose which cookies you allow. Necessary cookies are always on. × Your browser sent a Global Privacy Control ( GPC (opens in a new tab) ) signal, so Marketing stays off and cannot be enabled here. Turn off GPC in your browser settings if you want to allow marketing cookies. Necessary (always on) Required for the site to function. These cannot be disabled. Preferences Remember choices such as language or display settings. Analytics Help us understand how visitors use the site. Marketing (locked by GPC) (opens in a new tab) Advertising and remarketing via Google, Meta (Facebook), and TikTok. Privacy Policy Reject all Save preferences