EU cracks down on Caribbean golden passport programs with visa threat Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Inside Alts Family Offices High-Net-Worth Investing Advisory Board Newsletter Sign-Up Inside Wealth EU urges Caribbean nations to shut down golden passport programs or face travel restrictions Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 7:30 AM EDT Updated 4 Hours Ago Hayley Cuccinello @in/hayleycuccinello/ @HCuccinello WATCH LIVE Key Points In late June, the European Union formally requested that five Caribbean nations shut down their citizenship-by-investment programs by 2028 or lose visa-free travel to the bloc. While some immigration attorneys told CNBC that the ultimatum will likely end in a compromise, it is possible the EU will stand its ground. View over the clear turquoise waters of the harbor from verdant hilltop viewpoint above the village, Marigot Bay, Castries, St. Lucia. David C Tomlinson | The Image Bank | Getty Images A version of this article first appeared in CNBC's Inside Wealth newsletter with Robert Frank, a weekly guide to the high-net-worth investor and consumer. Sign up to receive future editions, straight to your inbox. The European Union has given five Caribbean nations notice that they need to end their citizenship-by-investment programs or risk losing visa-free access to Europe's Schengen area by 2028. The ability to enter the 29 countries in the Schengen area can be a substantial selling point for these golden passport programs. While some immigration attorneys told CNBC that the ultimatum will likely end in a compromise, it is possible the EU will stand its ground. Currently, foreigners can obtain citizenship in one of the countries by making a qualified investment in its economy, such as buying real estate or contributing to a government fund. Passports from one of these nations allow visa-free travel to some 140 countries and territories. With costs starting around $200,000, these citizenship-by-investment, or CBI, programs provide vital revenue to the Caribbean nations. The EU in late June sent letters to the governments of Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, St. Lucia and St. Kitts and Nevis. The countries are planning a coordinated response, including a mission to Brussels, according to a statement. "Our citizenship-by-investment programs are critical pillars of our non-tax revenue base. They cannot simply be abandoned without viable, credible and sustainable replacement sources of revenue," said Antigua and Barbuda Prime Minister Gaston Browne in a subsequent statement. The EU has cracked down on CBI programs in other nations before, including Malta. However, this request is unusual because it doesn't cite specific security concerns or propose remedies to address them, according to Ron Klasko, immigration attorney and co-founder of advisory Exodus Migration. He said he does not expect the EU to back down. "There's always been pressure from the EU on on the Caribbean countries, mostly related to security issues, and all of them have bolstered their security issues in response to EU requests in recent years. The new thing is different," Klasko said. "They're saying we are opposed to the concept of a commercial transaction resulting in you getting a passport. That goes to the very core of their program, unlike if they're saying we want you to bolster your security, which is where they can do something." Klasko said he is advising one of the five affected nations, which he declined to name, on possible changes to the program that may satisfy the EU. Get Inside Wealth directly to your inbox The Inside Wealth newsletter by Robert Frank is your weekly guide to high-net-worth investors and the industries that serve them. Subscribe here to get access today . Reaz Jafri, senior counsel at Charles Russell Speechlys, said he views the EU request as a starting point for negotiations rather than a firm ultimatum. Jafri, who also leads Dasein Advisors, a citizenship and residency consultancy, said a few clients have reached out, but they are still going through with their applications. "This conversation has been going on as long as I can remember," said the immigration attorney of 30 years. "I think the EU is looking to maybe get more diligence or better handle on certain things with regards to who gets in and who doesn't come in, and I think they'll comply because they're not looking to skirt any rules." In late 2024, the EU revoked visa-free travel to the Schengen region for citizens of Vanuatu, an island nation in the South Pacific, due to security and migration concerns. In 2025, the European Court of Justice struck down Malta's "golden passport" program as illegal. Malta has since implemented a merit-based program with residency requirements. Even if a compromise can't be reached, Jafri said the Caribbean nations rely too much on revenue from CBI programs to phase them out. More than half of his clients are Americans, who don't need a visa-free perk, he added. "I've had clients take these passports because they don't want to travel with their American or Israeli or Chinese passport. It's a security issue for them," he said. "I work with very wealthy clientele around the world, and having alternate citizenships and residencies is part of the global planning they do. They're managing different risks: political, personal, commercial, financial and so forth. "My clients are not doing this for easy access to the EU," he added. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. More In Inside Wealth Family offices back clean energy and sustainability startups in July as dealmaking holds steady Hayley Cuccinello 2 hours ago Megayacht Amadea sold for $187 million to Dubai billionaire with Trump ties Robert Frank 3 hours ago More tech millionaires are using donor-advised funds for tax savings and giving Robert Frank Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by