Lucid Group (LCID) earnings Q2 2026 Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Autos Lucid begins 'operational reset' as CEO says EV maker will delay midsize vehicle Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 4:05 PM EDT Updated 6 Min Ago Michael Wayland @MikeWayland WATCH LIVE Key Points Lucid missed second-quarter expectations, reporting revenue of $405 million and a loss of $3.30 a share. The EV maker said it's starting an "operational reset" that includes identifying $1.4 billion in cash flow improvement opportunities this year. New CEO Silvio Napoli also said the company is delaying the launch of its midsize vehicle. In this article LCID Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT The Lucid Gravity is displayed during the 2023 Los Angeles Auto Show at the Los Angeles Convention Center on Nov. 24, 2023. Josh Lefkowitz | Getty Images News | Getty Images Lucid Group missed Wall Street's second-quarter expectations as the electric vehicle manufacturer conducts an "operational reset" amid leadership changes and cost-cutting efforts. Those plans include beginning non-prototype robotaxi production early next year and delaying its upcoming midsize vehicle that was expected at the end of this year until "most likely" the second half of 2027, Lucid CEO Silvio Napoli told CNBC on Tuesday. "We're not going to make the mistake of the past where products, great cars, were in fact tainted by launching before things were ready," he said. "I think it's going to be '27. ... Most likely the second half of '27." Shares of Lucid fell roughly 8% during after-hours trading. Here's how the company performed in the second quarter compared with average estimates compiled by LSEG: Loss per share: $3.30 vs. a loss of $2.46 expected Revenue: $405 million vs. $416 million expected 'Transformation program' The company did not release updated 2026 guidance. Napoli, who started leading the automaker in June, previously suspended production expectations amid a reevaluation of Lucid's business operations. He told CNBC the company is "not ready" to give such guidance as Lucid resets investor expectations and has a new, incoming leadership team. Lucid also reduced production at its U.S. plant in Arizona from two shifts to one in June. "I want it to be anchored in solid data, and most of all, I want a guidance that I'm confident Lucid will be able to deliver on and possibly even do better than that. This takes time," he said. "I wanted to make sure that we align the reality with consensus, which is today based on outdated business model." The company did release broad details of an "operational reset" or "transformation program" that includes identifying $1.4 billion in cash flow improvement opportunities this year. They include approximately $600 million to $800 million in vehicle inventory, $500 million in capital expenditures, and $200 million in operating expenses, the company said. In addition to the cost-cutting, Lucid said the plan will broadly focus on three key areas: "cash and cost," "customer and quality" and "culture and team." More specifically, the company said its efforts will focus on its robotaxi program with Uber and Nuro, a factory that's under construction in Saudi Arabia, and its upcoming midsize vehicle. Lucid called the robotaxi initiative a "top priority." Napoli said the company's robotaxi plans continue, including the production of prototype vehicles based on the company's Lucid Gravity SUV instead of its midsize vehicle. He said the company expects to deliver about 100 of the pre-production vehicles by the end of the year to its partners, with actual vehicle production in the beginning of next year. "The robotaxi opportunity is huge, and it's an industry that is about to start an exponential growth," he told CNBC. "Not many companies are ready for it. We are a software-defined vehicle company, so we are well positioned." Lucid, Rivian and Tesla stocks Lucid, which reported $3 billion in total liquidity to end the second quarter, said the actions and its current financials are "expected to provide sufficient liquidity runway well into 2027." "Silvio and his leadership team are transforming the company, and the Board stands firmly behind their actions," Lucid Chairman Turqi Alnowaiser said in a release. The missed results and comments come weeks after Lucid denied an online report that it was considering bankruptcy or taking the company private. The report caused shares of the company to plummet. The stock recovered some of those losses, but remains off nearly 30% in 2026. Napoli adamantly denied such plans on Tuesday to CNBC, as he did when they were reported. "I wholeheartedly reinforce the denial," he said. "We are here to stay. We are here. We have a plan. We have a board and a majority investor that will help us to go through what is admittedly a moment where we are doing many things at the same time." Its largest shareholder is Saudi Arabia's sovereign wealth fund, the Public Investment Fund. Second-quarter results Lucid's second-quarter results included a net loss of more than $1 billion compared to a loss of $539.4 million during the second quarter of last year. The company reported an adjusted loss of $901.1 million, or $3.30 per share, compared with a loss of $632.1 million, or $2.80 per share, a year earlier. The losses were on production of 4,774 vehicles, up 24% year-over-year, and deliveries of 3,953 vehicles, up 19%, during the second quarter. The company currently offers the Air sedan and Gravity SUV that start at roughly $70,000 and $80,000, respectively. Napoli said the company's second-half production is expected to be lower than Wall Street's consensus and the first half of the year, while deliveries are expected to be higher than the first half of the year. Napoli, who formerly led an escalator and elevator manufacturer, replaced interim CEO Marc Winterhoff on June 1. Winterhoff remained with the company until late June as Napoli put together a new leadership team. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by