The 'education gap' hiding in picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Image source, Getty Images Image caption, The South West peninsula is England's top tourist destination By Branwen Jeffreys , Education editor and Hope Rhodes , Education producer Published 6 August 2026, 06:00 BST This year, millions of holidaymakers will head to Cornwall and Devon for their sandy beaches and pretty coastal towns - just two reasons why the South West peninsula is England's top tourist destination. Yet behind its wild coastal beauty and affluent towns lies a different story: one of lost opportunities and the unfulfilled potential of many growing up in the region. On almost every measure, the region is among the weakest educationally, according to the South West Social Mobility Commission, a coalition of organisations trying to bring about change. Disparities in GCSE results are often framed through the lens of a North-South divide, but that narrative can obscure the challenges facing children in coastal and rural parts of England. When you look at the regional data for English and maths GCSE passes for all pupils in England, you can see that, overall, the South outperforms the North. However, when you drill down into the data at a local authority level, and take into account children on free school meals, you see a different story. The South West is the second worst performing region through this lens, after the South East. Tanya Ovenden-Hope, Professor of Education at Plymouth Marjon University, describes what happens in the South West as "pretty poverty", and says this leads to fewer young people reaching their full potential. She calls growing up in "poverty in a deprived coastal rural community a potentially toxic combination" for future life chances. The government does measure the level of disadvantage in communities but Prof Ovenden-Hope says too much of that is done using measures that work for towns and cities, including transport. "If you live in Cornwall you have to own a car. It's not a luxury, it's a necessity, because everything you do and everywhere you go involves some kind of travel. That's not measured by the government's measures of deprivation." This matters because it helps decide how government money is allocated across England. Image source, Gemma Laister BBC Image caption, "It's not all ice creams and sandy beaches and turquoise seas": Tourism comes at a price for local families bringing up children on the lowest incomes Tourism is the largest contributor to Cornwall's economy, but it comes at a price for local families bringing up children on the lowest incomes. In April 2025, Cornwall Council introduced a 100% premium on council tax for second homes because of growing concern that wealthier visitors were buying up property at higher prices, reducing the affordability and availability of starter homes for local families. Figures from the ONS show the average house price in Cornwall in May 2026 was £280,000, and across the South West region it was £303,000. The UK average was £271,000 for that same period. Meanwhile average monthly rent in Cornwall rose by 4% in the year to June 2026 to £1,005. "It's not all ice creams and sandy beaches and turquoise seas," says Dominic Wilkes, a headteacher who moved from Greater Manchester to Bude in North Cornwall. Higher housing costs and the need for a car impact training and teacher recruitment. While the remoteness of some communities can also act as a deterrent for young teachers to move here from other parts of England, according to recent research. For Wilkes, who works at the only secondary school in Bude, the main upside is better teacher retention, which helps build a deep connection to the local community. But inspiring children to think about different options for their future comes with its challenges. As a teacher in Greater Manchester, Wilkes could hop on a tram to take pupils to museums and different workplaces, including the BBC at MediaCity in Salford, as part of the curriculum. The nearest railway station is about 30 miles from Budehaven Community School. Pupils travel in from scattered villages and the area offers a relatively limited range of employers able to broaden their horizons or spark ambitions beyond the classroom. This YouTube post cannot be displayed in your browser. Please enable Javascript or try a different browser. View original content on YouTube The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. YouTube content may contain adverts. Skip youtube video by BBC News Allow YouTube content? This article contains content provided by Google YouTube. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Google’s cookie policy , external and privacy policy , external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’ . Accept and continue The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. YouTube content may contain adverts. End of youtube video by BBC News Year 10 pupil Ethan, from Budehaven Community School, wants to become a marine biologist and recently completed a work experience placement at a seal sanctuary that was a three-hour round trip by car. "I love being in the sea and just protecting its habitats and wildlife, it really makes me excited to do something like that," he said. "I think Cornwall's amazing and all my family are here but I think I want to be able to grow as a person. I think I can only do that by leaving and exploring new adventures." Year 9 student Burt told us he had to travel to Oxfordshire and Coventry to take part in the National Youth Choir, which meant his dad had to book a hotel to break up the journey. He thinks there are good opportunities to be found but they're more difficult, and sometimes costly, to access from his town. But others told us Cornwall is the perfect location for them. Poppy wants to be a florist and dreams of opening a seasonal business selling homegrown local wildflowers. Image source, Gemma Laister / BBC Image caption, "I think Cornwall's amazing and all my family are here but I think I want to be able to grow as a person," says Ethan, who wants a career in marine biology Wilkes has decided to spend above average on careers advice and trips, including to universities, to help expand pupils' horizons but it is still hard. He had to turn down an offer of work experience from a "brilliant company" because although it didn't look too far on a map, it was five hours each way by road, without a direct bus service. This kind of challenge potentially deepens the divide between families who have the money to afford petrol for long-distance trips or holidays abroad, and those who are just about managing the basics with a rising cost of living. In the South West, much of the local employment is in farming or tourism, with young adults looking to leave and build their careers elsewhere. In 2024, jobs related to the visitor economy made up approximately 20% of employment in Cornwall. The South West Social Mobility Commission has other concerns about children who receive free school meals in the region. It warns that 46% of secondary pupils (and 27% of primary pupils) are persistently absent, which means missing 10% of their school time. While suspensions, exclusions and home education are also among the highest in England "raising important questions about school engagement, belonging and access to education". In young adulthood, the potential impact can be seen in the proportion who go on to university, one of the biggest long-term drivers of improved earnings and life chances between generations. In the South West, 19% of those who grew up receiving free school meals go on to get a degree, the lowest level in England, and below the North East. The national average is 29%. Image source, Gemma Laister / BBC Image caption, Teacher Nick Wakeling got in touch with us to talk about the challenges facing young people in the South West This is what motivated Nick Wakeling, a teacher at Colyton Grammar School, to get in touch. He runs the Colyton Foundation, a charity that supports young people into university. One of the foundation's schemes is Your Future Story, backed by schools and universities to support 1,000 secondary school pupils from lower income families through to university with targeted support. Libby is now considering a creative degree after Your Future Story arranged for her to go on a trip to Falmouth, a 1 hour 40 minute drive away. It "gave me an idea of what university would be like," she says. There is a big push for locally generated solutions from the South West Social Mobility Commission, funded by a coalition including Exeter University, which warns the region is near the bottom on most measures of educational attainment from early childhood onwards. While this can limit life chances in terms of getting to higher earnings, fewer young people in the South West are not in education, employment or training than most other parts of England. This is at a time when the national concern about what are called NEETs has reached an all-time high. The report found the South West has the highest proportion of people who received free school meals as children in sustained work by the age of 28. A Department for Education Spokesperson said: "This government believes every child should grow up with opportunity on their doorstep and hope for the future, with an education system that opens doors and cuts the link between background and success." From this September, two pilot projects on raising education results in coastal areas are getting under way in Hastings and Scarborough in what the government is calling Mission Coastal. The hope is to find approaches that transfer elsewhere, but the more rural and coastal South West may need to find quite different solutions. Additional reporting by Isobel Cottam and Libby Rogers. Related topics England Social mobility More on this story Education needs to be 'ahead not behind the curve' Published 1 day ago Free school meal pupils falling further behind their peers, report warns Published 14 July The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens 1:03 Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show. 00:01:03, play video Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show 0:58 Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:58 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns. 00:00:58, play video Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:19 England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations. 00:01:19, play video England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya Top stories Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption Published 16 minutes ago Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases Published 8 hours ago Uefa says boycott may still go ahead as FA withdraws Infantino support Published 5 hours ago More to explore The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Steve the featherless parrot gets his colour back Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives Why aren't more women getting into padel? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 Arrests in Thetford as disorder continues for third night 2 Artificial Intelligence used to design brand new viruses 3 Met Police boss admits mistake over plagiarism row 4 Amanda Knox defends Fringe comedy show after claims it will 'trivialise violence' 5 South Korea space agency shares Moon images after SpaceX rocket debris crash 6 Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order 7 Former duke chased by alleged stalker, court hears 8 Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption 9 Boxer charged with killing aid worker in Athens after his wife gave police 'key' details 10 Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.