Nine Lives, the feral cat that terrorised New Zealand’s rare ducks, is caught after three years | New Zealand | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Environment Climate crisis Wildlife Energy Pollution Green light Nine Lives, the feral cat that devastated a rare duck population in New Zealand for years, pictured in February 2024. Photograph: Pest Free Purerua View image in fullscreen Nine Lives, the feral cat that devastated a rare duck population in New Zealand for years, pictured in February 2024. Photograph: Pest Free Purerua New Zealand Nine Lives, the feral cat that terrorised New Zealand’s rare ducks, is caught after three years Large tabby cat that wiped out dozens of rare pāteke, or brown teal, has been killed after eluding trappers with its ‘very erratic’ behaviour Eva Corlett in Wellington Tue 4 Aug 2026 01.45 EDT Last modified on Tue 4 Aug 2026 21.30 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google A notorious feral cat given the name “Nine Lives” because it eluded trappers for three years has been caught and killed in New Zealand , ending its devastating rampage against one of the country’s rare duck populations. The cat, a large grey tabby, is estimated to have killed dozens of New Zealand’s rarest mainland duck – or 1% of its population – plus a host of kiwi chicks, native geckos and other native wildlife during the three years it was known to be roaming the Purerua peninsula, near the top of the North Island. “We don’t take for granted that we’ve had this success because it had us baffled for so long,” said Andy Mentor, the project manager for Pest Free Purerua, a conservation project. ‘Coming home’: kiwi enter parliament for first time as New Zealand marks conservation win Read more New Zealand has one of the highest rates of cat ownership in the world, and the impact of feral and domestic cats on biodiversity ignites fierce debate. Some on social media were horrified Nine Lives had been shot, believing it deserved to live, while others said its capture was “a fantastic result”. Nine Lives will form part of that debate long after its death, with its body set to be taxidermied for use as a tool to educate the community about the devastating impact of feral cats on native species. Nine Lives was first spotted on the Purerua peninsula in Northland in 2023. What ensued was a frustrating and twisted game of cat and mouse. View image in fullscreen Nine Lives ate dozens of pāteke, or brown teal, that were being introduced back into the wild. Photograph: Pest Free Purerua Pest Free Purerua had just introduced 20 pāteke, or brown teal – the country’s rarest mainland duck – to the peninsula, believing it had control over the feral cat population. “But within a week we had our first death. We put up some cameras and we identified a particular cat with specific markings,” Mentor said. Another 15 pāteke were killed, with the same cat turning up. “It was a really stressful time. So we brought in more traps, gear, night cameras to try and get to the root cause of the problem.” The project managed to catch other feral cats over the next year, but Nine Lives remained elusive. They decided to release more pāteke in 2024 but the same cat appeared, killing another 15 of the 20 birds. “This particular cat would be very erratic. It would show up in a particular place and then not show up for another two or three months. It would show up in the dusk, midnight, early morning, through the day, so it was never a predictable pattern, which made it very, very difficult to track,” Mentor said. The team came close to catching it on a number of occasions, but each time it slipped their grasp, earning it the name Nine Lives. At the end of July, Mentor and his team noticed the cat had turned up to a quarry three nights in a row, which was “quite unusual”. They laid out salmon, fried chicken and rabbit to attract the animal, and deployed cages and traps. On 30 July, a notification on a cellphone camera showed a cat in one of the cages. “We dispatched our trappers to check it out and there it was. So it was humanely shot,” Mentor said. The animal will have its stomach contents examined to see what it was feeding on before being taxidermied. Mentor said it has likely also fed on kiwi chicks, native geckos and other native wildlife. More than 2.5m feral cats roam New Zealand’s bush and on offshore islands, where they can grow up to a metre long, including their tail. They have destroyed native wildlife and hunted some bird species to the brink of extinction. In November, the government announced feral cats would be added to the country’s world-leading Predator-Free 2050 strategy. Mentor said moving from the suppression of cats to an elimination strategy will be a “real step up” for the peninsula and the team may restart introducing pāteke once more. But for now, conservationists will celebrate the capture of Nine Lives, as well as honour their most evasive adversary. “Nine Lives needs to be given a certain amount of dignity and respect,” said Mentor. Explore more on these topics New Zealand Wildlife Animals Asia Pacific Invasive species news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed Environment Climate crisis Wildlife Energy Pollution Green light News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)