Rep. Andy Ogles loses his Republican primary in Tennessee IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Politics U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline 2026 Election Rep. Andy Ogles loses his Republican primary in Tennessee Ogles lost despite having President Donald Trump’s endorsement, NBC News projects. Former state Agriculture Commissioner Charlie Hatcher will be the GOP nominee. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Add NBC News to Google Andy Ogles defeated in Tennessee House GOP primary, NBC News projects 01:59 Get more news on Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 6, 2026, 10:04 PM EDT By Ben Kamisar Rep. Andy Ogles of Tennessee has lost his Republican primary, NBC News projects, falling to a former state official in a primary season that has seen an unusually high number of incumbents lose renomination. See live results Charlie Hatcher, the former state agricultural commissioner, rode support from prominent establishment Republicans to a victory over Ogles, a controversial congressman backed by President Donald Trump. He is a heavy favorite in the general election in the deep-red district. Congressional candidate Charlie Hatcher speaks at a campaign event at Southall Angus in Franklin, Tenn., on July 13. Alan Poizner for The Tennessean / USA Today Network via Reuters Ogles was outraised and outspent on the airwaves, largely because of a massive ad effort from a pro-clean energy group — a last-minute campaign Ogles criticized in an interview with Fox News . While Ogles had arguably the most important endorsement in a GOP primary in Trump’s, Hatcher had backing from Gov. Bill Lee, former Gov. Bill Haslam and other prominent Republicans, like former Trump Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue. Ogles has faced various controversies over the years. He said this year that Muslims don’t belong in American society , deleted a homophobic social media post after having blamed a staffer and argued last year that the federal government should revoke future New York Mayor Zohran Mamdani’s citizenship and deport him. He was also investigated on suspicion of campaign finance violations; he has not been charged with any crimes. Ogles told The Associated Press that the Justice Department returned his cellphone, which it had seized during the investigation. But while Ogles had fended off a well-funded primary opponent before , he couldn’t do it this time. Hatcher didn’t run away from Trump, either, despite Trump’s support for Ogles. Hatcher aligned himself with Trump and his policies and sought to contrast himself with Ogles. “Think what President Trump could do if our congressman spent less time talking and more time doing,” reads a quote on Hatcher’s website. Ogles is the ninth House member — six Democrats and three Republicans — to lose a primary this year. That’s the most in a nondecennial redistricting year since 1970, according to Vital Statistics on Congress . Two senators, Republicans Bill Cassidy of Louisiana and John Cornyn of Texas, also lost their primaries, and an additional House member — Rep. Tony Gonzales, R-Texas — finished second in his primary and then decided to drop out of the race and resign before a GOP runoff. Share Add NBC News to Google Ben Kamisar Ben Kamisar is a national political reporter for NBC News About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC