'Sex predator let out to kill' and 'net zero plans rolled back' - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat 'Sex predator let out to kill' and 'net zero plans rolled back' Published 8 August 2026, 00:46 BST Updated 5 hours ago Image caption, Several papers are leading on a serial sex offender who has been found guilty of murdering two women and raping a third in London. The Daily Express declares "Sex predator let out to kill", reporting that Simon Levy was out on bail and being monitored by Metropolitan Police when he committed the crimes. Image caption, Levy is pictured on the front page of the Daily Mail, alongside photographs of the two women he has been found guilty of murdering: Carmenza Valencia-Trujillo and Sheryl Wilkins. The paper's headline reads "Tube monster bailed to rape and murder". Image caption, The Times says Prime Minister Andy Burnham is looking to relax some of Labour's net zero targets, as part of his plan to tackle the cost of living crisis. The paper quotes the new energy secretary, Miatta Fahnbulleh, who said that the government "would not stick rigidly to the pledge made by her predecessor". It says the Department of Transport is currently considering the zero-emission vehicle mandate, which stipulates what proportion of cars sold each year must be electric. Image caption, Gianni Infantino's alleged lover was given a severance payment over the affair by Uefa while he was its general secretary, according to a Daily Telegraph investigation. A spokesman for Infantino was reported to have told the paper he "strongly denies these categorically untrue allegations". Image caption, Water is the main story for the i Weekend, which writes that the prime minister is being urged to "take control of tap water" in order to fix England's "sewage crisis". it points to analysis published earlier this week, which revealed that every river and lake in England contains toxic chemicals, while "leaky pipes" lose an estimated 2.6bn litres of water every day. Image caption, Millions of adults and children across England are facing longer wait times for mental health care, the Guardian says, as more than 66% of NHS providers plan to reduce or shut down service completely. According to the paper, the proposed cuts have been drawn up by trusts to plug holes in finances. Image caption, "UK curbed power exports to Europe" says the Financial Times, reporting that the National Energy System Operator restricted power exports to Britain's neighbours last month so as to preserve supplies during the recent heatwave. The paper says it comes as the grid faces rising pressure during summer months, which have previously been viewed as less of a stretch than winter. Image caption, Strictly Come Dancing dancers James and Ola have split up after 22 years of marriage, according to the Sun. The paper says the separation has been confirmed to the paper by the pair's manager. Image caption, The Daily Mirror carries an exclusive interview with football pundit Chris Kamara, who has revealed that he had a prostate cancer scare after a routine blood test. Image caption, Argentinian football star Lionel Messi is pictured on the front page of the Daily Star, which says he was targeted by a bomb plot during the World Cup last month. Several front pages carry pictures of the killer and rapist, Simon Levy, and the women he murdered. The Daily Express says he's "likely to die behind bars" , external following his conviction yesterday. The Daily Mail describes him as a "Tube Monster", referencing his attacks on the London Underground network. In an article for the paper, the Conservative leader Kemi Badenoch calls Levy a "modern-day Jack the Ripper" , external , and argues a tougher criminal justice system is needed to protect people. The Daily Telegraph says Andy Burnham is considering an "about turn" on blocking the early prison release of two of PC Andrew Harper's killers , external . The Sun quotes a government source as saying the PM is prepared to "explore every option". , external The new energy secretary has told the Times that the government could relax some of Labour's net zero targets , external to help reduce the cost of living. Miatta Fahnbulleh tells the paper that ministers won't stick rigidly to a pledge to nearly eliminate fossil fuels from Britain's power supplies by 2030 – if doing so would risk higher household bills. According to the Daily Telegraph, European football's governing body paid off a member of staff – who it claims was an alleged mistress of Gianni Infantino – when he was Uefa's general secretary. , external The organisation he now leads, Fifa, tells the paper that Infantino strongly denies the allegations, and that there have never been any complaints by employees about his behaviour. The Telegraph said Uefa had admitted a payment had been made, which it said had been in accordance with regulations at the time, and that those rules had since been tightened. The Guardian casts doubt on the stereotype that holidaying Germans hog sun loungers. It highlights a poll of European tourists by YouGov, that suggests the Italians and the French are more likely to reserve a spot with a towel , external . According to the paper, the British are the least likely to hog a sun lounger. Sign up for our morning newsletter and get BBC News in your inbox. Related Internet Links Daily Express Daily Mail Daily Mirror Daily Star Daily Telegraph Financial Times Guardian Independent Metro Sun The i Times The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:28 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update. 00:00:28, play video 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update 1:17 The tech that could map every tree on earth. 00:01:17, play video The tech that could map every tree on earth 0:59 Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 00:00:59, play video Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 1:07 Riding England's longest zip wire. 00:01:07, play video Riding England's longest zip wire 1:21 How many different cubes can you make? 00:01:21, play video How many different cubes can you make? 2:01 Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape. 00:02:01, play video Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape 1:02 Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter. 00:01:02, play video Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter 1:17 What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:17, play video What we know about the Thailand school shooting 0:48 Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 00:00:48, play video Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 0:53 Are you hung up on hangers? 00:00:53, play video Are you hung up on hangers? 0:52 Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 00:00:52, play video Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 0:31 The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 00:00:31, play video The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 0:43 Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan. 00:00:43, play video Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan 0:33 Moment raiders drive car into service station. 00:00:33, play video Moment raiders drive car into service station 1:11 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 00:01:11, play video 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 0:39 How much rain will end the drought? 00:00:39, play video How much rain will end the drought? 0:24 Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol. 00:00:24, play video Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol 1:43 Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment. 00:01:43, play video Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment 0:44 Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup. 00:00:44, play video Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup 1:00 What is 'food noise'? 00:01:00, play video What is 'food noise'? Top stories Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands Published 3 hours ago Infantino denies claims Uefa paid off alleged 'lover' Published 11 hours ago The phone book that led us to Assad's spy chief in hiding Published 10 hours ago More to explore I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock Pokémon hobby takes brothers to world championships 'We had to flee with just my daughter's clothes and dolls' Obesity rates have doubled in England since 1993 - what's going on? The 101-year-old who created a dolls' house museum with her childhood toys How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC With great power comes great responsibility She's not a bad girl anymore, wink wink wink wink Can a test tell you what's living inside your gut? How much discipline is too much in school? Most read 1 I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock 2 Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands 3 He's been frozen on Everest for 30 years, now 'Green Boots' may finally be coming home 4 Hunter Biden tells BBC his pardon was 'not good' for America or his father's legacy 5 Digital cameras and wired earphones are back - and 'a bit more real' 6 Woman attacked by bed bugs during Travelodge stay 7 Spain imposes border controls against Italy as row over Ceuta migrant influx intensifies 8 Airport disruption a 'shambles' as flights restart 9 How a former GB Olympian curbed his porn problem - and the signs and steps to recovery 10 The phone book that led us to Assad's spy chief in hiding BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.