E.l.f. Beauty (ELF) Q1 2027 earnings Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Retail E.l.f. Beauty sees $50 million windfall in tariff refunds as profits surge 100% Published Wed, Aug 5 2026 4:06 PM EDT Updated Wed, Aug 5 2026 5:00 PM EDT Gabrielle Fonrouge @in/gabrielle-fonrouge @fonrougegab WATCH LIVE Key Points E.l.f. Beauty has received around $50 million in tariff refunds, leading its net income to surge by nearly 100% and gross margin to grow by 14 percentage points. The impact is a one-time blip and not something investors can continue to expect moving forward as refunds dry up. E.l.f. said it's planning to reinvest the tariff refund it received into marketing and lowering prices on about 10% of its assortment. In this article ELF Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT The New York Stock Exchange welcomes e.l.f. Beauty (NYSE: ELF), on March 18, 2024, to the podium to celebrate its 20th anniversary of founding. To honor the occasion, Tarang Amin, Chairman & CEO, joined by Tara Dziedzic, NYSE Head of Listings - U.S. Sectors, rings The Opening Bell®. E.l.f. Beauty 's profits nearly doubled during its fiscal first quarter thanks to a windfall of cash it received in tariff refunds from the federal government, the company said Wednesday. In the three months ended June 30, E.l.f. received about $50 million in tariff refunds, plus some interest payments related to the duties that were struck down by the Supreme Court, leading its net income to grow by about 100% and its gross margin to grow by 14 percentage points compared to the prior year. "Our plan is to fully reinvest that money in both pricing, to have a superior value proposition, as well as increased marketing across our entire portfolio of brands," CEO Tarang Amin told CNBC in an interview. "We feel we never should have had the tariffs to begin with, so let's invest in our brands to drive the strength that we see." While the company is still waiting for around $8 million in additional refunds, the major impact to profitability seen during the quarter will be a one-time blip that won't continue moving forward. Here's how the cosmetics company performed during the quarter compared with what Wall Street was anticipating, based on a survey of analysts by LSEG: Earnings per share: $1.75 adjusted vs. 71 cents expected Revenue: $479 million vs. $430 million expected The company's reported net income for the three-month period that ended June 30 was $66.6 million, or $1.12 per share, compared with $33.3 million, or 58 cents per share, a year earlier. Adjusting for non-recurring charges related to taxes and stock-based compensation, E.l.f. posted earnings of $1.75 per share. Sales rose to $479.4 million, up about 36% from $353.7 million a year earlier. The strong results led E.l.f. to raise both its full-year revenue guide and full-year adjusted earnings per share outlook. The brand is now expecting sales to be between $1.94 billion and $1.97 billion, beating expectations of $1.86 billion and up from a prior range of between $1.84 billion and $1.87 billion, according to LSEG. It's now expecting adjusted earnings per share to be between $3.50 and $3.55, beating expectations of $3.33 and up from a prior range of between $3.27 to $3.32. Though the tariff refund was the primary driver of E.l.f.'s outsized profitability during the quarter, Amin said the company's gross margin still would have been up by about 3.5 percentage points without it, primarily due to price increases it implemented last year and lower tariffs. The benefit of those higher prices will start to wane in the current quarter as E.l.f. begins to lap some of those price increases and walks some of them back. Last quarter, Amin said the brand planned to reverse some of the tariff-fueled price increases it implemented last summer so it could stimulate demand from cash-strapped consumers, telling CNBC shoppers were "suffering" from high gas prices and other concerns. Over the past few months, the company conducted a pricing study across 80% of its assortment, where it walked back prices on average by $1 to see if there would be an impact on demand. However, it found that lower prices on the vast majority of the assortment, around 90%, didn't have an impact on units sold and only about 10% of the assortment could benefit from a price reduction to stimulate volume. "We used the actual consumer behavior of consumers voting with their wallet, of which items do we see a massive improvement in unit volume, which ones didn't really see that much of a difference, which told us that those items were appropriately priced to begin with," Amin said. "So we took advantage of the tariff refund to be able to do that broad testing and we feel really great about the data that we got back in terms of which items we could identify that could really drive unit momentum." For example, volume growth for E.l.f.'s best selling Power Grip Primer didn't really budge when the price was reduced, but the company did see a change when it reduced its Cream Glide Lip Liner from $3 to $2. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by