Can drones solve this country's healthcare problems? : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Can drones solve this country's healthcare problems? Drones carrying medical supplies constantly crisscross the skies of Rwanda. The Trump administration is giving a major grant to the effort — and at the same time cutting aid to the country. Global Health They're a world leader in using drones for healthcare. But drones can't do it all August 4, 2026 7:05 AM ET Fatma Tanis A drone, just returned from a delivery, swings into the landing mechanism in Muhanga, Rwanda. The country's government has contracted with American robotics company Zipline to deliver emergency blood through drones since 2016. Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption toggle caption Claire Harbage/NPR MUHANGA, Rwanda — Noella Mukanoheli was nine months pregnant and bleeding out. It took her three hours to see a doctor. First, she made a 50-minute trip to the clinic that serves her village, riding on the back of a friend's motorbike. There was no doctor on staff so they called an ambulance to take her to the nearest hospital. It was only about 10 miles away but took two hours to get there because of the country's challenging roads. Her husband, who was with her, says she lost consciousness en route. When she arrived, doctors said she needed 5 liters of blood. That's considered a "massive transfusion" in medical terms — an emergency measure to replenish virtually all the blood in a human body. Sponsor Message But the hospital didn't have her blood type, so doctors had to order it. The blood arrived in mere minutes. The method of transport: two drones, which dropped their precious packages in the Muhanga hospital courtyard. When Mukanoheli awoke hours later, her hand immediately went to her belly. "My doctor said I had given birth and the baby was alive, but I would have died without the drone," says the 42-year-old, who experienced the traumatic event in April. Noella Mukanoheli, 42, lost 5 liters of blood while she was in labor with her child. After a three-hour journey to the nearest hospital, she learned they didn't have her blood type. Minutes later, a drone dropped off the blood — a lifesaving delivery. Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption toggle caption Claire Harbage/NPR This harrowing story shows the promise of drones in a country where it's famously hard to get around. Rwanda is known as the land of a thousand hills, and when drivers get stuck behind a slow-moving truck on winding and narrow roads, there's no way to pass. In 2016, seeking an immediate solution for emergency blood deliveries, the Rwandan government contracted with American robotics company Zipline for drone shipments. Today, drones play a critical role in ferrying all kinds of medical supplies to those in need. But the drone success story is only part of the healthcare landscape in Rwanda — a landlocked country of nearly 15 million people in East Africa. The majority of the population lives in rural areas. In the three decades since the Hutu genocide against the Tutsi in 1994, the country has sought to reduce poverty, improve healthcare and lift itself from lower-income to upper-middle income status, and has championed high-tech solutions. Yet its a complicated and costly task that includes expanding electricity and building and maintaining roads on hilly terrain. A narrow dirt path leads to Noella Mukanoheli's village, which isn't accessible by car. Many people walk or take motorcycles to get to health facilities. Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption toggle caption Claire Harbage/NPR In 2025, the Trump administration announced a $150 million grant to expand Zipline's work in Rwanda and four other African countries . It has caught the attention of others too: Zimbabwe sent a delegation to Rwanda in June to look at their drone program. At the same time, Trump has cut about $200 million in funding for aid organizations that provide food and health aid to rural communities in Rwanda. This reflects the administration's new strategy favoring American businesses for global health work over nongovernmental organizations. NPR reached out to the State Department for comment on the funding cuts and the drone program but did not receive a response. A statement announcing the grant to Zipline in November 2025 said: "The Trump Administration, in partnership with U.S. and African innovators and policymakers, is advancing cutting-edge technologies that are strengthening health outcomes and enhancing emergency responses to infectious disease outbreaks." Sponsor Message A sky full of drones A Zipline drone drops a package filled with medicines at Kabgayi Hospital in Muhanga. Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption toggle caption Claire Harbage/NPR The drone story in Rwanda is nothing short of remarkable. To see the impact, all you have to do is look up at the sky, where drones are constantly zipping across the country. The drone itself resembles a tiny airplane. It has a white Styrofoam body and red wings. A battery sits where a cockpit would be; the package rides in its belly. On average, a drone carrying medicine, vaccines, blood and diagnostic tests for humans and animals is dispatched every 50 seconds, according to Pierre Kayitana, the company's country director. Zipline now manages virtually all of Rwanda's pharmaceutical supplies and deliveries. The drones that saved Mukanoheli's life launched from a facility in the rural town of Muhanga. "This is actually the very first Zipline distribution center in the world," says Kayitana. "It started here in 2016. This place, just so you locate yourself, this is the exact center of Rwanda." Andrew Sekuye, a fulfillment operations specialist at Zipline, gathers supplies and packs them into boxes to be flown via drone across Rwanda. Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption toggle caption Claire Harbage/NPR The Muhanga location is one of two distribution centers operating in the country. A third is set to open soon, funded by the grant from the United States. "Rwanda will be the first country in the world to be fully covered with drone technology," Kayitana predicts. At the Muhanga facility, orders pour in from medical workers across the country, through phone, text message and on WhatsApp, and are fulfilled from a small warehouse full of pharmaceuticals. "It's the highest standard of a medical warehouse by FDA [standards]. Anything you may need in a hospital, you can find in here," Kayitana says. The supplies themselves belong to the Rwandan government; Zipline manages the logistics, delivery and inventory. The call center in Muhanga where Zipline employees monitor requests for deliveries of medical supplies. Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption toggle caption Claire Harbage/NPR In one corner of the warehouse, half a dozen technicians assemble outgoing orders. There's a minimum weight requirement of 1 kilogram, or 2.2 pounds, Kayitana explains, because anything lighter risks being blown off course by the wind. Sponsor Message When the package is placed in the drone, an engineer carries it to a launch pad, and with the press of a few buttons, the drone slingshots into the sky. "The drone is embedded with AI software," Kayitana says. "It knows where to go and can make its own decision on how to avoid the wind, how to reach the hospital faster depending on what it sees." They can fly at a speed averaging 64 miles per hour and reach an altitude of 400 feet — about as tall as a 35-story building. "We can reach any point of Rwanda in under 30 minutes [with a drone]," Kayitana says. By contrast, the same trip could take up to seven or eight hours by vehicle. Many of the drones from Muhanga are bound for Kabgayi Hospital, the largest hospital in southern Rwanda and the one that treated Mukanoheli. The 4-mile drive from Zipline's center takes 30 minutes; the drone makes it in four, dropping its cargo by paper parachute. A Zipline employee prepares a drone for takeoff (foreground) while other staff meet a drone at the landing mechanism. Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption toggle caption Claire Harbage/NPR "We are lucky, it takes like five minutes to bring blood here," says Dr. Evariste Ufitihirwe, deputy director general of Kabgayi. "It's faster than telling a person to go in stock to bring blood." A decade ago, before the drones, he says, doctors had no choice but to manually clamp blood vessels to slow bleeding in emergency cases while they waited, sometimes for hours, for blood to arrive from a bank in the capital city Kigali, about 30 miles away. "A decade of transformation" The drones represent a major part of a government plan to improve overall healthcare and reduce maternal mortality rates that includes policies like universal healthcare and investing in midwives. "Every time a mother dies, it triggers everyone's attention, we investigate, and we find the root causes," says Rwanda's health minister, Dr. Sabin Nsanzimana . "There is, of course, accountability, there are lessons learned, there's adaptation of the systems and supplies are a critical aspect of that." Sponsor Message The benefits of this multipronged approach are reflected in government statistics . Twenty-six years ago, Rwanda recorded roughly 1,000 maternal deaths for every 100,000 births. Today, that figure has fallen to 87, according to Nsanzimana. The hilly terrain in Rwanda and lack of road maintenance make access to rural areas difficult. Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption toggle caption Claire Harbage/NPR "It has been a great decade of transformation," he adds. "We used to [only] see drones in war zones taking lives," says Nsanzimana. "But now we're seeing drones in health systems saving lives, which is really the best use of technology we could want to see us as doctors, as patients." The drones are also taking on disease management, carrying diagnostic tests and medication for cervical cancer, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. "It's an evolving technology, so drones really to me are going to be a game changer in what we do," Nsanzimana says. The government hopes that Zipline can also play a role in tackling the growing traffic problem in the capital city of Kigali. "Kigali has busy roads, [imagine] you have a paramedic who needs some kind of materials and emergency products to save a life, but traffic is bad," he says. "A drone can deliver such kind of products to paramedics. "And maybe one day there will be flying doctors, flying paramedics who can fly [in a] drone [and reach patients]. Why not?" The impact of the U.S. aid cuts But the hope for a brighter future is being jeopardized by the U.S. aid cuts announced last year. Nsanzimana says the government had to redirect limited resources to keep some lifesaving programs running. That's a concern echoed by aid groups that provide health services to hard-to-reach communities and partner with Zipline. Pharmacist Juliette Ishimwe collects packages delivered by Zipline to bring back to the pharmacy at the Kabgayi Hospital. Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption toggle caption Claire Harbage/NPR "It's a partnership that can create lasting change," says Marcel Sibomana, program manager for Save the Children in Rwanda, adding that local communities benefit most when both private sector and NGOs work to help them. Sponsor Message But Sibomana is worried that some of the health facilities for pregnant women and children that the group runs will have to close when the U.S. cuts take effect in September. This is one reason why donors like the United States, as well as recipient governments, need to take a comprehensive approach to solutions, according to Enoh Ebong , president of the global development department at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. "Without the underlying infrastructure, like roads, energy and power and unless there is accessibility, rural and otherwise, then all of these solutions will stop short," says Ebong. "These basics need to be addressed in order to be able to get the full benefit of [high-tech solutions] like the Zipline deal." Historically, this is where U.S. foreign assistance has played a significant role for low-income countries, Ebong says. What drones can't deliver Many of the smaller health centers closest to rural populations struggle with basic equipment and staff. At a health post in a remote town called Ituzi, head nurse Rosaline Uwera receives regular vaccine shipments from Zipline. At a health post in the remote town of Ituze, head nurse Rosaline Uwera unpacks a shipment of medicine and puts it away in a solar refrigerator at a health center. Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption toggle caption Claire Harbage/NPR "I'm grateful for the steady resupply of medicines and vaccines. It means we can get all the children in this area vaccinated," says Uwera. "I used to have to travel many hours to acquire them myself from pharmacies." Still, she can't get oxygen or an ultrasound machine, which means she has to refer many of her pregnant patients to the nearest hospital, two hours away, Uwera says. Two months after giving birth, Noella Mukanoheli is still recovering from the complications and blood loss, dealing with pain and fatigue. "It would have been better if the drone could have delivered blood directly to the health clinic I first went to," she says, and if that clinic was staffed with doctors who could have treated her there. Sponsor Message Her baby lies still in her arms, his breathing faintly wheezing. He looks small for a 2-month-old. "He's malnourished," Mukanoheli says. She has not been able to breastfeed him because she doesn't have enough to eat. She says she's had to resort to giving him cow's milk, which is not safe for children under 12 months. Soon, she'll need to make the long trip back to the health clinic to get him checked out. And even as she's grateful for the lifesaving help from the drones, Mukanoheli knows she can't turn to them now. drones Health Care trump administration Rwanda Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices