Fiji rugby player dies in Japan of suspected heatstroke as high of 35C hit | Rugby News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up Sport | Rugby Fiji rugby player dies in Japan of suspected heatstroke as high of 35C hit Saimoni Vunilagi was hospitalised with symptoms of heatstroke after rugby team training on Monday, but died on Friday. Listen (2 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google Saimoni Vunilagi's Kyushu KV club hosted Japan against Wales at their Mikuni World Stadium Kitakyushu in 2025 [Masterpress/Getty Images] By AFP Published On 8 Aug 2026 8 Aug 2026 A Fijian rugby player with a Japanese professional team has died after being taken to hospital with “symptoms consistent with severe heatstroke”, Saimoni Vunilagi’s club said on Saturday. Second-division side Kyushu KV said 26-year-old Vunilagi was taken to hospital in the southern city of Fukuoka after a team practice on Monday, and died on Friday morning. Recommended Stories list of 4 items list 1 of 4 Argentina and Mexico back Infantino, deepening FIFA divide: What to know list 2 of 4 Infantino, FIFA try to move beyond botched World Cup sell-off: What we know list 3 of 4 UEFA’s threatened legal action against Infantino and FIFA: What we know list 4 of 4 UEFA confirms legal letter served to FIFA after Infantino’s World Cup plan end of list Temperatures reached a high of 35 degrees Celsius (95 degrees Fahrenheit) in Fukuoka on Monday. Vunilagi, a back row forward who stood 196cm (6ft5in) and weighed 117kg (258lb), attended university in Japan and began his professional career in 2023. “The players, staff, and all team associates are devastated by this sudden news,” the club said in a statement. “Although Saimoni had only recently joined Kyushu KV, his generous spirit and powerful style of play had raised high hopes for his contributions in the upcoming season. “We humbly pray for the repose of his soul and extend our heartfelt condolences to his bereaved family.” Japan sweltered through its hottest summer on record last year, and parts of the country have hit 40C (104F) in recent weeks. Close to 18,600 people were taken to hospital for heatstroke between July 20 and 26, with 45 of them pronounced dead on arrival, according to the fire and disaster management agency. Japan experiences about 1,300 heat-related deaths annually and is aiming to halve that number by 2030. Three lions at a Tokyo zoo died from suspected heatstroke, and others are under treatment, a spokeswoman said this week. Advertisement Scientists say human-induced climate change is increasing the frequency and intensity of extreme heat events in Japan and elsewhere. The country’s highest recorded temperature of 41.8C (107F) was registered on August 5, 2025, in Isesaki, north of Tokyo. Authorities have adjusted the timing of several cultural and sporting events in recent years because of the heat, including the World Cosplay Summit in Nagoya, which held its final summer edition last weekend. Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network