Helicopter fighting Utah wildfire crashes with two people onboard, officials say | US news | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness The Widemouth 2 wildfire burning near Richfield, Utah. Photograph: U.S. Forest Service/Fishlake National Fores/AP View image in fullscreen The Widemouth 2 wildfire burning near Richfield, Utah. Photograph: U.S. Forest Service/Fishlake National Fores/AP US news Helicopter fighting Utah wildfire crashes with two people onboard, officials say Rescuers not yet able to reach scene of crash near Richfield in central Utah, prompting fears for two missing people Uwa Ede-Osifo Fri 7 Aug 2026 21.18 EDT First published on Fri 7 Aug 2026 20.12 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google A firefighting Sikorsky S64 helicopter with two individuals onboard crashed on Friday morning in a remote area of central Utah , according to federal aviation authorities. The US Forest Service initially declined to comment on the condition of the helicopter’s passengers, asking the public for “patience while we focus on response efforts” in a statement . Emergency personnel are responding near Richfield,about 160 miles south of Salt Lake City, an agency spokesperson told the Guardian by email. The exact circumstances surrounding the crash are unknown. At a media briefing on Friday evening, Tyler Hecht, deputy incident commander with Great Basin incident management team, described the terrain as “very difficult”, and said rescuers “have not reached the scene of the accident” in part because the helicopter crash had started a new fire. Asked about the morale of the firefighters battling to control the blaze, Hecht said it was “very somber with what’s going on. You know, they did take a tactical pause, regrouped, and they’re back fighting fire.” The aircraft was in the vicinity of the Widemouth 2 fire , a blaze sparked by lightning that has raced through 105,000 acres since it began on 27 July. As of Friday morning, the fire was 19% contained with 632 personnel assigned to suppressing it, and seven helicopters were dropping retardant and water on the flames the US Forest Service said. The Widemouth 2 fire is one of eight large fires burning across Utah, which cumulatively have swept through more than 331,000 acres, according to state data . “Wildland firefighting is among the most dangerous jobs in the world,” Utah governor Spencer Cox wrote in a social media post . “Today is a painful reminder of the extraordinary risks these brave men and women accept to protect us.” The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) are investigating the crash. NTSB investigators are set to reach Richfield by Saturday evening, the agency said in a statement. Investigators expect to wait for fire conditions to subside to a safe level that will permit them to travel to the crash site and retrieve the aircraft. The crash comes amid a deadly wildfire season for the western US. Three firefighters were killed in June as they battled a blaze along the Colorado-Utah border. In late June, Jamie Barnes, the director of Utah’s division of forestry, described the fires as unlike anything in recent memory. “We’re seeing fires spread farther and faster under conditions that defy historical expectations. Some of the fires we’ve responded to this year are behaving in ways veteran firefighters simply haven’t seen before,” Barnes said. “Our firefighters have been working around the clock, our resources are stretched, and we cannot afford preventable ignitions during the days ahead,” he added, referring to statewide firework restrictions. Explore more on these topics US news Wildfires Utah Firefighters news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)