Palantir stock rises 29% on soaring commercial revenue, AI sovereignty Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech Palantir stock skyrockets 29%, narrowly missing its best day ever after 'otherworldly' results Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 6:27 AM EDT Updated 2 Hours Ago Sawdah Bhaimiya WATCH LIVE Key Points Palantir's second-quarter earnings saw commercial revenue skyrocket 149% from a year ago. The software giant pinned its blowout second-quarter earnings on firms demanding AI sovereignty. Palantir's results "further weaken the bear case around rising AI competition," as demand for data privacy from AI companies sets it apart, Citi analysts said. In this article PLTR Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Palantir CEO Alex Karp speaks during an interview on July 27, 2026 in New York City. John Lamparski | Getty Images Palantir stock skyrocketed 29.5% on Tuesday after the company reported "otherworldly" second-quarter earnings driven by customer demand for AI sovereign tools. Shares narrowly missed their best day ever, when the stock gained 30.8% on Feb. 6, 2024. The enterprise software giant reported a 93% growth in overall revenue to $1.94 billion, up from around $1 billion a year ago, and beating LSEG estimates of $1.8 billion. Its commercial revenue jumped 149% to $764 million, and government revenue grew 90% to $809 million. The company expects full-year revenue between $8.15 billion and $8.158 and commercial revenue in excess of $3.424 billion. Palantir was last up 16.3% in premarket trading. Palantir's Co-founder and CEO Alex Karp described the quarter as "otherworldly," adding that the sovereign AI revolution makes them "very optimistic about the future." "Forget consensus," Karp told CNBC's Seema Mody in an exclusive interview. "To my knowledge, no businesses at our scale has even grown half this much." watch now VIDEO 14:48 14:48 Watch CNBC’s full interview with Palantir CEO Alex Karp News Videos Palantir, which designs systems that help companies integrate AI with their existing systems and data, pinned its blowout earnings on growing demand for AI sovereignty as companies seek to keep their data private from frontier AI labs like OpenAI, Google , Anthropic, and Meta . In a letter to shareholders, Karp said "the revolution for independence and AI sovereignty is now well underway," noting that the business has "Marxist" values. "Our customers have declined to become vassal states of the language labs," Karp said in the letter. "Every organization in the world is awakening to the risks of handing the creators of the language models the keys to their institutions, of letting the models loose within their homes." At Monday's close, the company's stock was down 29% in 2026 as investors have increasingly become cautious on the AI trade. With Tuesday's rally, shares have cut that loss, and over the last 12 months, shares are up 1%. Palantir's stock in 2026 so far. Despite this, Citi analysts said in a note on Tuesday that Palantir's results "further weaken the bear case around rising AI competition," as demand for data privacy from AI companies sets it apart. Companies rely on Palantir's technology to integrate their software, while also making demands to keep their data private from AI models. "In our view, the results reinforce Palantir's position as one of the clearest beneficiaries of enterprise AI adoption, with accelerating commercial demand demonstrating the company is benefitting from similar demand as the fastest AI natives on the market," the analysts said in a previous note on Monday. "We expect shares up meaningfully given the significant snapback in U.S. Commercial performance, which pushes back against slowing growth," they added. Read more CNBC tech news SpaceX revenue jumps 92% and AI costs soar in first earnings report since IPO NJ files antitrust suit against Amazon, alleging it unlawfully wielded power over delivery contractors Palantir stock skyrockets on 'otherworldly' commercial revenue — here's what's driving the demand How the 'Baby iPhone' and an Apple supplier leak explain China's recent supply chain moves Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by