Data dashboard: Lake Powell is about to drop below target elevation - Aspen Journalism Close Donate Subscribe Search for: Search WATER Open dropdown menu Post-2026 Colorado River negotiations System conservation program Crystal River Shoshone hydro plant Lincoln Creek contamination Tribal water Zebra mussels Water and urban landscapes Real time snowpack in the Roaring Fork basin ENVIRONMENT Open dropdown menu Crisis of the commons North Star Nature Preserve Federal funding Fire management Harvest Roaring Fork St. Benedict’s Monastery Traffic Aspen SOCIAL JUSTICE Open dropdown menu ICE Affordable housing Youth education The Aspen 80 Noticias en Español EN ESPAÑOL HISTORY Open dropdown menu B. Clark Wheeler The second coming of Albert Schweitzer Aspen: The Embattled Community In search of community History of the Northern Utes History of Aspen NEWSLETTERS Open dropdown menu The Roundup newsletter The Runoff ABOUT Open dropdown menu Mission and annual reports Staff, Board & Advisers Donors and Funders Publish Our Work Editorial Independence Policy EVENTS Open dropdown menu An evening with Reveal host Al Letson and Aspen Journalism WATCH RECORDING: Confronting Scarcity on the Colorado River — A Panel Discussion The state of independent journalism with ProPublica Editor-in-Chief Stephen Engelberg Contact Facebook Twitter Close Skip to content Facebook Twitter Aspen Journalism local. nonprofit. investigative Donate Subscribe Open Search Search for: Search DONATE Menu WATER Open dropdown menu Post-2026 Colorado River negotiations System conservation program Crystal River Shoshone hydro plant Lincoln Creek contamination Tribal water Zebra mussels Water and urban landscapes Real time snowpack in the Roaring Fork basin ENVIRONMENT Open dropdown menu Crisis of the commons North Star Nature Preserve Federal funding Fire management Harvest Roaring Fork St. Benedict’s Monastery Traffic Aspen SOCIAL JUSTICE Open dropdown menu ICE Affordable housing Youth education The Aspen 80 Noticias en Español EN ESPAÑOL HISTORY Open dropdown menu B. Clark Wheeler The second coming of Albert Schweitzer Aspen: The Embattled Community In search of community History of the Northern Utes History of Aspen NEWSLETTERS Open dropdown menu The Roundup newsletter The Runoff ABOUT Open dropdown menu Mission and annual reports Staff, Board & Advisers Donors and Funders Publish Our Work Editorial Independence Policy EVENTS Open dropdown menu An evening with Reveal host Al Letson and Aspen Journalism WATCH RECORDING: Confronting Scarcity on the Colorado River — A Panel Discussion The state of independent journalism with ProPublica Editor-in-Chief Stephen Engelberg Contact Posted in Local Public Data Data dashboard: Lake Powell is about to drop below target elevation Lake Powell could drop 2 to 3 feet below the target elevation in March. Snowpack at Schofield Pass has gained 3 inches of SWE since last week. by Laurine Lassalle March 8, 2022 March 8, 2022 As an Aspen Journalism donor, thank you for making this reporting possible! Aspen Journalism is compiling a data dashboard highlighting metrics of local public interest, updated at least weekly by mid-day Tuesday. Lake Powell is only one foot away from dropping below target elevation The U.S. Bureau of Reclamation announced on March 5 that Lake Powell will decline below 3,525 feet in elevation in the near future, reflecting a dry winter season. “The drop is temporary and Lake Powell’s elevation is expected to recover above 3,525 feet through the course of the spring runoff season, likely in May,” the press release noted. Lake Powell could drop 2 to 3 feet below the target elevation in March, according to recent projections . “A very dry January and February eroded the Colorado River Basin’s snowpack, decreasing Lake Powell’s projected unregulated inflow forecast for water year 2022 by approximately 2.2 million acre-feet from January through February,” according to the press release. Lake Powell ‘s storage reached its lowest level recorded since it began filling in the 1960s and ’70s on March 6, when the reservoir was 24.62% of full. Last week, on Feb. 27, the reservoir was 24.92% of full. The reservoir’s capacity has fallen since last year, when on March 6, 2021, the reservoir was 37.59% of full. The surface elevation of Lake Powell is only one foot above the target elevation of 3,525 feet as it hit a record low on March 6, 2022, when the reservoir’s elevation dropped to 3,526 feet, or 174 feet from full pool. The reservoir has lost about one foot since Feb. 27, when the elevation was at 3,527.18 feet from full pool. Last year, on March 6, the reservoir reached 3,570.45 feet or 129.55 feet from full pool. The “minimum power pool” for turbines generating hydropower at the Glen Canyon is 3,490 feet, and 3,525 feet has been set as a buffer to ensure that the reservoir and the turbines can continue to function properly. The easiest way to stay informed! Subscribe to our weekly newsletter for story updates and summaries. (Unsubscribe anytime) The Roundup: a weekly roundup of AJ's original stories The Runoff: a monthly newsletter from AJ's Water Desk Sign up Snowpack at Indy Pass remains at over 80% of average SNOTEL sites that monitor snowfall throughout the winter measured the snowpack at Independence Pass at 82.7% of average on March 6, with a “snow water equivalent” (SWE) of 11.42 inches. The size of the snowpack relative to the 30-year average is down from 84.5% on Feb. 27. Last year on March 6, the SNOTEL station up the pass recorded an SWE of 10.98 inches. The monitoring station at the lower-elevation McClure Pass recorded an SWE of 12.52 inches, or 82.4% of average, on March 6. A week before, the station reported 11.69 inches of water contained in the snowpack, or 83.5% of average. Last year, on that same day, the station measured a snowpack holding 10.98 inches of water, or 72.3% of average. On the northeast side of the Roaring Fork Basin, snowpack at Ivanhoe contains higher water levels than the 1991-2020 average, with 12.91 inches on March 6, which is 101.7% of the average of 12.7 inches. It’s also up from last year’s 12.2 inches of SWE. Snowpack at Schofield Pass reached 33.31 inches on March 6, which represents 117.7% of average. Schofield Pass, which sits at an elevation of 10,700 feet between Marble and Crested Butte, picked up 3.11 inches of SWE since last week. Snow water equivalent — the metric used to track snowpack — is the amount of water contained within the snowpack, which will become our future water supply running in local rivers and streams. Temperature rose between late-February and early-March Temperatures jumped from a high of 20°F on Feb. 24, which is 16.9 degrees below normal, to a high of 49°F on March 1, which is about 11 degrees above normal, according to temperatures recorded at the Aspen/Pitkin County Airport. The minimum increased from -4°F on Feb. 27 to 11°F on March 1. Air quality in Aspen remains “good” The air quality in Aspen was “good” this past week. The AQI index ranged from 21 for PM2.5 on March 2 to 50 for ozone on Feb. 28. Sources USGS Roaring Fork River near Aspen (Stillwater) Roaring Fork River at Glenwood Springs Colorado River below Glenwood Springs Dotsero Crystal River (above diversions) Colorado River near Colorado-Utah state line Colorado’s Division of Water Resources Bureau of Reclamation NOAA Airnow Aspen Consolidated Sanitation District ACES Aspen Global Change Institute Recent stories from Aspen JOurnalism Water River District concerned legal tools for conservation program could favor some regions over others Colorado could most easily wring water from Grand, Uncompahgre, Upper Gunnison valleys The irrigation districts of the Grand and Uncompahgre valleys are close to the state line and the Upper Gunnison Valley is just above Blue Mesa, so the majority of water conserved in these locations will get to where it needs to go without the state Division of Water Resources having to actively shepherd it. Read this story Noticias en Español La ciudad de Glenwood Springs vota para demandar al propietario de las instalaciones de ICE por permitir que continúen las detenciones sin permiso Ni ICE ni el propietario respondieron a las notificaciones de infracción ni apelaron la decisión municipal de abril de revocar su permiso de uso especial Un centro de detención temporal de ICE situado al oeste de Glenwood Springs podría estar un paso más cerca de su cierre después de que la ciudad votara el 6 de agosto a favor de demandar al propietario del inmueble, con sede en Florida, por presuntamente infringir la normativa municipal al permitir detenciones de inmigrantes… Read this story Local Public Data Major changes proposed for PitCo’s short-term-rental regulations More properties would be eligible, but a cap-and-lottery system would limit licenses by geographic zone Pitkin County commissioners at a work session Tuesday asked for additional information about proposed changes to the county’s short-term rental regulations that would make more properties eligible for a license, while implementing new STR caps tailored to different areas. Read this story Related Tagged: Data dashboard Laurine Lassalle Laurine Lassalle is Aspen Journalism’s data desk editor, where she works to catalog and analyze local public data. She has a master’s degree in data and investigative journalism from UC Berkeley with... More by Laurine Lassalle Facebook Twitter Subscribe Donate Contact Mission and annual reports Publish Our Work © 2026 Aspen Journalism Powered by Newspack Gift this article Close Link Copy link