Third person charged with threatening witnesses in Nolan Wells investigation IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Politics U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline U.S. news Third person charged with threatening witnesses in Nolan Wells investigation Wells was found dead on Mississippi’s Horn Island on July 6, two days after he and a group of friends went to celebrate Independence Day. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 A picture of Nolan Wells displayed during his funeral at Center Pointe Church in Ocean Springs, Miss., on July 20. Ayrton Breckenridge / The Clarion Ledger / USA Today Network via Reuters Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 5, 2026, 8:55 AM EDT / Updated Aug. 5, 2026, 9:21 AM EDT By Rebecca Cohen and Joe Kottke Three people have been charged with threatening witnesses in the investigation surrounding the death of Mississippi teen Nolan Wells in three different instances. One of the three defendants, Edward James Porter, is accused of making multiple threats to two witnesses July 31, according to court documents obtained by NBC News. According to a probable cause affidavit, Porter made multiple calls to two witnesses, threatening to kill them and their families. He said he knew where they lived and told the second witness he would cut them up and put them into a suitcase, the documents said. Wells was found dead July 6 at the northwest tip of Mississippi’s Horn Island, two days after he ventured to the area with a large group of friends to celebrate the July 4 holiday. His friends have told officials that they needed to leave the gathering early because their boat was taking on water, and that Wells had told them he wanted to stay behind and catch a later ride with other people. They say that’s when they last saw their friend. Nolan Wells on Horn Island off Mississippi on July 4. Jackson County Sheriff's Department When he never returned home , Wells’ mother and one of his friends reported him missing to the authorities. The family’s lawyer, civil rights attorney Ben Crump, has since questioned the circumstances surrounding his death — calling into question whether race was a factor, as it appeared Wells was one of a few Black people there that day. Crump has also rejected notions from law enforcement officials that Wells may have drowned, citing the teenager’s ability to swim well and his athletic past. NBC News has reached out to Crump for comment. Officials in Mississippi have also charged Joseph Alfredo Vasquez Dumarce, after, according to a probable cause affidavit, he sent messages on Facebook to a Jackson County chancery court judge July 11. A screenshot of the purported messages included in the court documents shows someone with the username “yaeyae962” threatening to send a bomb to the judge’s office. “There will be a package coming to your guys office in the next few days. It’s gonna blow you away when you see it lol,” the messages said. “Once that package is opened the timer will start. And then you have maybe 10 seconds or less to ask god forgiveness.” Authorities then tracked the Facebook account to Dumarce. The mother of one of Wells’ friends who was with him the day he died, Ashlee Cole, posted on Facebook about the teen’s death and said that her son was cooperating with authorities. Cole is a Jackson County judge, and grand jury charging documents for Dumarce identify the victim in this case as having initials “A.C.” Cole has since posted screenshots of Instagram and Facebook messages from “yaeyae962” showing the same threatening messages that were included in the court documents. 01:20 State completes autopsy of Mississippi teen Nolan Wells 00:00 00:00 A third person, Michelle Francine Edwards, was charged with making a bomb threat to the George County Chancery Clerk’s Office July 23. Edwards then sent a second bomb threat to the Jackson County Sheriff’s Office later that day, according to a probable cause affidavit. Edwards called the George County chancery clerk more than 20 times in eight minutes July 23 and said “do not go outside,” “the clock is ticking” and “die,” according to the court documents. She then called the Jackson County Sheriff’s Office eight times in a nearly 20-minute period and said, “y’all got a bomb outside, don’t come outside b----,” the probable cause affidavit said. No attorney was listed as representing Porter, Dumarce or Edwards. NBC News has reached out to the Jackson County Public Defender’s Office for comment on the three cases. Share Add NBC News to Google Rebecca Cohen Rebecca Cohen is a breaking news reporter for NBC News Digital. Joe Kottke Joe Kottke is an assignment editor at NBC News covering breaking news across the Americas, including politics, immigration, crime and severe weather. About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC