Short-Form Programming Heads to Disney+ Skip to content VERSE OF THE DAY “I will set no worthless thing before my eyes.” Psalm 101:3 Home Reviews News Lists TV Search Give ← News Franchise & Hollywood News August 7, 2026 Short-Form Programming Heads to Disney+, and That’s Not Good for Attention Spans Photo by BoliviaInteligente on Unsplash M Movieguide® f 𝕏 ✉ ⧉ Disney likes what TikTok’s got. Specifically, its addictive short-form content style. Disney just made a deal with the social media platform that will have TikTok creators make shorts that promote Disney content. The shorts will be available on Disney+ and TikTok as “Verts,” vertical videos, Variety reported . “This collaboration creates a new bridge between the stories we tell and the creativity they inspire, giving creators a bigger stage to share what they’ve made, and audiences more to discover on Disney+ every day,” said Asad Ayaz, Disney’s chief marketing and brand officer. Disney already launched Verts on ESPN’s direct-to-consumer service. ESPN’s Verts let users have more control over a feed through which they can scroll or swipe, and the videos are tailored to the individual interests of users. In May, Disney CEO Josh D’Amaro said the company wants to focus on short-form content because it wants to engage with Gen Alpha fans in a new way. Both TikTok and Disney will also create a “Disney Creator Ambassador Program” that will give some users incentives and access to events and career development. For example, some TikTok creators will have access to assets related to hundreds of films and series from Disney’s vast library. Related: Scrolling Short-Form Content Does This to Your Brain View this post on Instagram “Together with Disney, we’re bringing the authentic creator expression of the TikTok community to Disney+, inviting audiences to experience the shared creativity that makes fandom so powerful,” said Dawn Yang, global head of entertainment for TikTok. The companies will launch a pilot program in the US in the coming months and will expand to the international market later, Tech Crunch reported . Netflix, HBO, Max, Prime Video and other outlets like ABC News have their own Verts. In that regard, Disney may be a little late to the short-form content game. Variety announced Disney’s navigation into “microcontent” in January. It planned to provide microcontent in news and entertainment. Enjoy articles like this? Signup to the Movieguide® Newsletter! Psychologist Monica Vermani said short-form content is dangerous to the brain’s attention span. It offers endless dopamine and negatively impacts mental health. A recent study found that it leads to “emotional desensitization, cognitive overload, and a negative self-concept” and is linked to anxiety, depression and distress. Too much time watching short-form content can also reduce academic performance and create impulsivity. Studies from Gloria Mark, Ph.D., professor of informatics at the University of California, Irvine, say there is a strong decline in our ability to focus. It was two and a half minutes in 2004, to 75 seconds in 2012 and then to 47 seconds in the past six years. “While the phenomenon of and research into the impacts of SFV consumption are relatively new, the writing is on the wall,” said Vermani. “It is critical that we press pause, reflect on the time we spend in the thrall of SFV engagement, and take steps to manage our time and attention to create healthy boundaries around our SFV engagement.” So this expansion of SFV from social media to entertainment networks is not exactly a great step for mankind. Read Next: YouTube Cofounder Doesn’t Let His Children Watch Short-Form Videos. You Probably Shouldn’t, Either. Questions or comments? Please write to us here . Related Stories More News → Franchise & Hollywood News Disney Bids Goodbye to DOCTOR WHO October 30, 2025 Franchise & Hollywood News What Plan Does This Disney Co-Chairman Have for New Kids’ Programming? March 7, 2025 Franchise & Hollywood News Disney Star Dishes on Working on ‘Family Show’ GOOD LUCK CHARLIE December 27, 2024 Faith & Sports Dodgers Shortstop Wins MVP as Team Heads to World Series: ‘God Is Just So Good’ October 24, 2024 Franchise & Hollywood News Beatles LET IT BE Doc Heads to Disney+ After Peter Jackson’s Team Restores April 18, 2024 Faith-Based Film & TV GAF Promises ‘Unforgettable Day’ of Good Friday Programming March 11, 2024 ✓ FAMILY-SAFE New & Safe to Watch Family-approved picks for tonight See all family-safe → JEP & JESS BEYOND THE BAYOU: Episode 104: “Finding Comfort” Family Reality TV · TV-G COCOMELON: THE MELON PATCH: Episodes 1.4-1.6 Family Childen, Education · TV-Y DUGOUT DADS: Episodes 1.1-1.3 Family Sports, Comedy · TV-PG COYOTE VS. ACME Family Comedy · PG WEATHER HUNTERS: Episodes 1.19-1.21 Family Children, Educational · TV-Y COOKIE MONSTER’S FOODIE TRUCK: Episodes 1.1-1.3 Family Children, Educational · TV-Y LEGO DISNEY PRINCESS: MAGICAL MAYHEM Family Animation · G DANNY GO!: Episodes 2.1-2.3 Family Children, Kids' Music · TV-Y MOVIEGUIDE ® Redeeming the values of the media since 1985. A 501(c)(3) ministry of Good News Communications, Inc. f IG 𝕏 ▶ CONTACT Contact Us Give Newsletter Faith Promise Letters To The Editor Privacy Policy Terms of Use Sitemap ABOUT About Us About Dr. Baehr What Our Ratings Mean Speaking Engagements Sponsorship Opportunities Press Familyguide CAREERS Careers Internships Inklings Fellowship INDUSTRY Movieguide® Awards Kairos Prize® ScriptList Classes EXTRAS Mobile Apps Premiere Streaming Kids Corner Radio Books Photos Recommended Products © Copyright 2026 Movieguide | The Family Guide to Movies & Entertainment Home News Reviews Lists Search Ask Dr. Teddy Reviews, picks & what’s okay for kids × Ask Dr. Teddy ↑ What can my 8-year-old watch tonight? Clean comedies on Netflix Dear readers, time is running out in 2025 to help Movieguide®. Only a tiny portion of our readers give. If everyone reading this right now gave $7 right now, our fundraiser would be done within an hour. If Movieguide® is useful to you, please take one minute to keep it online and growing. Thank you! Movieguide® is a 501c3 and all donations are tax-deductible. Invalid email address