University of Greater Manchester ends contract of embattled vice-chancellor | UK news | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland An email sent to staff at the University of Greater Manchester said George Holmes was no longer an employee. Photograph: Joel Goodman/The Guardian View image in fullscreen An email sent to staff at the University of Greater Manchester said George Holmes was no longer an employee. Photograph: Joel Goodman/The Guardian UK news University of Greater Manchester ends contract of embattled vice-chancellor George Holmes was suspended in 2025 over allegations involving financial mismanagement and other misconduct Richard Adams Education editor Thu 6 Aug 2026 05.00 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 05.02 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google The University of Greater Manchester’s embattled vice-chancellor has had his contract terminated by the university’s governing body, ending a period of uncertainty over the university’s leadership. Sir George Holmes, who had led the university for two decades, was initially suspended last year over allegations involving financial mismanagement and other misconduct. On Wednesday afternoon staff and students were informed that Holmes was no longer employed by the institution, which was previously known as the University of Bolton. Three arrested in fraud investigation at University of Greater Manchester Read more An email to staff said: “Dr George Holmes’s contract as vice-chancellor has been ended by the governing body of the university. Dr Holmes is therefore no longer an employee of the university.” Holmes’s position had been under pressure after a series of investigations published by Manchester’s the Mill, which revealed a string of allegations by whistleblowers involving bullying, racism and fraud. A spokesperson for the university said Holmes’s employment had been ended earlier this week. Holmes was suspended in May last year following the results of an external investigation commissioned by the university. The development was welcomed by Phil Brickell, the MP for Bolton West, who had been calling for a resolution to protect the university from further fallout during the vital student recruitment period this autumn. Brickell said: “Now that we know that George Holmes is no longer the vice-chancellor of the university, it is vital that the institution focuses on restoring confidence, ensuring strong governance, and maintaining its commitment to students, staff and the wider community. “There is an ongoing police investigation but once concluded the university should seek to draw a line under this affair, learn any lessons arising from it, and move forward in a way that delivers the best outcomes for its staff, students and the people of Bolton. “Stability, transparency and a clear focus on educational excellence will be essential in the period ahead”. The university said the current acting vice-chancellor, Greg Walker, would remain in place and that the governing body would “meet in due course to consider the process and timelines for appointing a permanent head of the institution”. Last year, Greater Manchester police said detectives and investigators from their major incident team had been looking into “suspected fraud and bribery” relating to the case and searched seven properties in Greater Manchester and in the south of England to seize evidence. In July this year, three people were arrested as part of the investigation, with GMP saying it was “exploring evidence” of more than £1m in fraudulent activity between 2014 and 2025 involving 60 transactions and more than a million emails. GMP carried out arrest warrants at two addresses in Bolton and three others in Lancashire, Humberside and West Yorkshire, arresting two men in their 60s and a woman in her 50s. All three were arrested on suspicion of money laundering, while both men were also arrested on suspicion of fraud and one man on suspicion of bribery. The three people arrested have been released on bail without being charged. Explore more on these topics UK news news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)