Judge grants Donald Trump's request to delay handing financial records to BBC - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Entertainment & Arts Judge grants Trump's request to delay handing financial records to BBC Image source, Reuters By Steven McIntosh Entertainment reporter Published 5 hours ago A judge has granted Donald Trump's request to delay handing over financial records to the BBC as part of his $10bn (£7.4bn) lawsuit against the broadcaster. The US president is suing the BBC over an episode of Panorama that edited together two different sections of a speech he gave before the 2021 Capitol riots. The BBC has asked for some of Trump's financial records in relation to his argument that the documentary damaged the president's business interests. A judge granted that request in July and the first documents were due to be filed on Thursday, but another judge has now agreed to an emergency motion filed by Trump's lawyers earlier this week to pause the disclosure. The president's legal team said disclosure of the financial records would cause him "irreparable harm". They argued that no such revelations should be made until the court rules on an objection to the order requiring the disclosure. Trump has also recently asked to amend his main case, which his lawyers said would make the document release unnecessary. The president has asked for his central complaint against the BBC to be amended so it no longer claims the documentary damaged his brands and businesses. His lawyers have asked that the case is amended to claim for damages for "the reputational injury to the President, full stop". In a ruling on Thursday, the judge said the order for financial information disclosure would be paused until the amendment question is resolved. The BBC had said Trump's request for a delay to disclosure was "a transparent effort to evade this court's clear and direct order and to continue to avoid the discovery obligations that the plaintiff took on when he chose to file this lawsuit". "In fact, this is just the latest in [Trump's] months-long refusal to provide documents, sworn answers to interrogatories, deposition dates, any meaningful information to support his pursuit of $10bn from the BBC for a documentary the BBC never aired in the United States." Trump's lawsuit - filed in Florida - accuses the BBC of "intentionally, maliciously, and deceptively doctoring" the speech he gave outside the Capitol on 6 January 2021. The BBC has apologised for an editing error that gave "the mistaken impression that President Trump had made a direct call for violent action". However, the BBC has asked the court to dismiss the lawsuit, arguing that the programme doesn't meet the legal criteria for defamation and wasn't made available on its US platforms. Last month, Trump's lawyers admitted they had no evidence that the documentary was available in the US on the BBC's BritBox subscription service, as they had originally claimed, or on BBC.com, BBC Select or through US broadcasters. Trump also recently agreed to drop the BBC's commercial arm BBC Studios from his lawsuit, after the BBC argued the company had "no role in creating or producing the documentary". Related topics Media BBC Television More on this story Trump drops BBC's commercial arm from Panorama lawsuit, but main case remains Published 17 July The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens 1:03 Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show. 00:01:03, play video Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show 0:58 Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:58 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns. 00:00:58, play video Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:19 England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations. 00:01:19, play video England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya Top stories Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption Published 20 minutes ago Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases Published 8 hours ago Uefa says boycott may still go ahead as FA withdraws Infantino support Published 5 hours ago More to explore The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Steve the featherless parrot gets his colour back Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives Why aren't more women getting into padel? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 Arrests in Thetford as disorder continues for third night 2 Artificial Intelligence used to design brand new viruses 3 Met Police boss admits mistake over plagiarism row 4 Amanda Knox defends Fringe comedy show after claims it will 'trivialise violence' 5 South Korea space agency shares Moon images after SpaceX rocket debris crash 6 Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order 7 Former duke chased by alleged stalker, court hears 8 Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption 9 Boxer charged with killing aid worker in Athens after his wife gave police 'key' details 10 Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.