Tech millionaires use donor-advised funds for tax savings and giving Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Inside Alts Family Offices High-Net-Worth Investing Advisory Board Newsletter Sign-Up Inside Wealth More tech millionaires are using donor-advised funds for tax savings and giving Published Mon, Aug 3 2026 12:34 PM EDT Updated Mon, Aug 3 2026 2:56 PM EDT Robert Frank @robtfrank WATCH LIVE Key Points DAFgiving360, a donor-advised fund affiliated with Charles Schwab, is seeing a boom in donations of private company shares. DAFs are gaining in popularity as private firms like Anthropic and OpenAI skyrocket in value and more companies stay private for longer. The funds allow donors to make a charitable gift, take an immediate tax deduction, and decide later where and when to give the shares to a specific charity. Businessman working in the office Pixelfit | E+ | Getty Images The surge in IPOs and valuations for private tech companies is creating a secondary boom in donations of shares to donor-advised funds, or DAFs, according to a new study. Three quarters of the gifts to DAFgiving360 over the past 12 months were noncash assets, according to the donor-advised fund, which is affiliated with Charles Schwab. Noncash assets include everything from shares in public and private companies to real estate, art and collectibles, crypto and other holdings. Julie Sunwoo, president of DAFgiving360, said gifts of private company stock have been especially strong, as artificial intelligence giants like Anthropic and OpenAI skyrocket in value and more companies stay private for longer. "This year we had more inquiries about private-business interests and pre-IPO shares than ever before in any other year," Sunwoo said. DAFs have special appeal for tech workers and holders of private shares. The funds allow donors to make a charitable gift, take an immediate tax deduction, and decide later where and when to give the shares to a specific charity. Donors who own shares of a private or public company that have gained value can gift the shares to the DAF without paying a capital gains tax on their sale. DAFs are also attractive to tech workers who tend to be younger, since they can make the donations now and wait until their later years to decide on the individual grant recipients. Large DAFs, like those affiliated with Schwab, Fidelity and Vanguard, also have expertise valuing private shares and other assets. They have large market-making operations and relationships with private companies that make it easier for them to sell the private shares. Sunwoo said generally, DAFs seek to sell noncash assets given to the fund within six months. Get Inside Wealth directly to your inbox The Inside Wealth newsletter by Robert Frank is your weekly guide to high-net-worth investors and the industries that serve them. Subscribe here to get access today . "We have the infrastructure and the expertise to help people liquidate those assets in time and redeploy them to charity," Sunwoo said. "It is often an individual plan with the [private] company that we are working with to figure out the best time frame and the best solution." The SpaceX initial public offering earlier this year — and potential IPOs of Anthropic and OpenAI — could unlock even more value. Many employees of tech firms have large gains in their employee stock. Some private companies restrict or ban the donation of their private shares to charities or trusts. With public stock, many employees can now donate the stock to a DAF without paying the capital gains tax. The deduction on the gift can also be used to offset capital gains taxes owed on shares they may sell. "We help take in appreciated assets, help people liquidate them, and help people get that money then out to charities," Sunwoo said. "The IPO activity that we've seen is creating wealth moments for people often in their peak earning years, so they're looking for ways to make an impact with the money that they suddenly come upon." Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. More In Inside Wealth Family offices are making a bullish bet on the stock market, according to CNBC Family Office Portfolio Tracker Robert Frank What the Buss family Lakers dispute can teach the wealthy about trusts Hayley Cuccinello Bugatti CEO Mate Rimac says the future of supercars is old-school combustion engines Robert Frank Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by