Dons call for Cambridge leaders to take blame for Jason Arday appointment | Jason Arday | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Education Schools Teachers Universities Students Jason Arday at the time of his appointment to a professorship at Cambridge University in 2023. Photograph: Graeme Robertson/The Guardian View image in fullscreen Jason Arday at the time of his appointment to a professorship at Cambridge University in 2023. Photograph: Graeme Robertson/The Guardian Jason Arday Dons call for Cambridge leaders to take blame for Jason Arday appointment Exclusive: Academics call for inquiry, saying university must be held accountable for ‘grotesque racism unleashed’ Richard Adams Education editor Thu 6 Aug 2026 15.54 EDT First published on Thu 6 Aug 2026 14.40 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google The University of Cambridge’s leaders deserve blame for the “grotesque racism unleashed” by Jason Arday’s appointment as professor, according to academics calling for the university to hold an independent inquiry. The Guardian understands that senior dons at Cambridge are circulating a joint letter calling for an inquiry into the processes and circumstances around Arday being given the position, with many suggesting the university wanted a “quick fix” to improve the diversity of its staff. Arday was appointed as professor of sociology of education in 2023 at the relatively young age of 37 and despite a slim track record of research and publications compared with those appointed to similar chairs at Cambridge. Arday resigned on Wednesday after more than a week of public questions involving plagiarism in his PhD thesis and other publications, allegations of exaggerating his academic appointments, mounting controversy over his claims to have raised millions of pounds for charity, and lurid statements involving masked attackers and even a pig’s head delivered to his parents’ home in London. Arday is preparing to publish his memoir in the US and UK in the coming days and told the Guardian that its publisher, Simon & Schuster, is to pay him “1.4 million” for his extraordinary backstory, which includes being unable to speak until he was 11 years old. The group of Cambridge academics want any inquiry to include external members and be given independent status. They point to concerns over the appointment committee for Arday’s post, and to previous disputes within the university’s faculty of education where Arday was based. Priyamvada Gopal , professor of postcolonial studies at Cambridge’s English faculty and one of the group organising the letter, said: “An independent investigation must scrutinise how such an early-career appointment to a very senior and prestigious professorial chair was made and what both the faculty of education and university management may have got very badly wrong.” She added: “Whatever the results of any investigation, the university bears no little responsibility for the grotesque racism which this whole business has unleashed, and for the harm done both to the individual in the line of fire, to Black academics as a group, and the broader field of critical race studies. “This requires accountability now from those responsible, not a cover-up.” Other academics who spoke to the Guardian said they had been surprised by Arday’s appointment in 2023, with one sociologist admitting to never having heard of Arday before: “When it was announced I looked for his body of work, and it was disappointing to say the least.” Gopal said Cambridge had been too tempted to “cut corners on the hard work of fostering equality and inclusion” by opting for a media-friendly appointment. “The extent to which this appointment was paraded in the media by the university … raises questions about whether the university sought public kudos for itself rather than teaching and research from this appointment. “It is highly unusual, to say the least, to appoint such an early-career academic to a very senior post,” Gopal said. “Academic misconduct also needs more robust and transparent procedures in place, as more than one case at Cambridge indicates. “The university must also pay attention to the consequences of putting young people of colour in highly visible places to carry the burden of representation before they are ready to withstand scrutiny.” Playbooks, plagiarism and a pig’s head: new claims surrounding a star Cambridge professor Read more When the controversy first erupted, the university briefed journalists that it stood by its appointment process, and publicly defended Arday as “the victim of a vile campaign” to discredit him. But on Wednesday night the university abruptly announced that it would open a fresh investigation after receiving “new information” about his qualifications and appointments. Shortly afterwards Arday said he would resign, adding: “I no longer wish to feel as though I am living under a constant spotlight, where every aspect of my life is subject to public examination and judgment.” The university and other organisations have since distanced themselves from Arday by deleting webpages and excising references, which one academic described as “wiping away the traces”. Jesus College, Cambridge, and the university’s faculty of education have taken down Arday’s staff profiles. Arday had signed up to speakers’ bureaus and, since his Cambridge appointment, has addressed a number of commercial organisations, including the annual conference of the Association of British Insurers in 2025. Simon & Schuster’s speakers bureau lists Arday as “an internationally sought-after speaker for industry conferences, corporate events, university lectures, and more, and has travelled across the United States for speaking engagements”. In 2024 Arday was a keynote speaker at US National Association of Funeral Directors international convention in New Orleans. His subsequent appearances, however, may dry up: an appearance in Arizona promised for October this year has also been removed. Explore more on these topics Jason Arday University of Cambridge Higher education Race Academics Plagiarism Universities news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story The rise and fall of Jason Arday: a full rundown of the questions being asked 3h ago Jason Arday claimed he was paid ‘1.4 million’ by publisher for memoir 8h ago Cambridge professor Jason Arday resigns amid accusations of plagiarism 1d ago Cambridge announces investigation into professor accused of plagiarism 1d ago Playbooks, plagiarism and a pig’s head: new claims surrounding a star Cambridge professor 5d ago Jason Arday: he learned to talk at 11 and read at 18 – then became Cambridge’s youngest Black professor 11 Jul 2023 Jason Arday to become youngest ever black professor at Cambridge 23 Feb 2023 National curriculum ‘systematically omits' black British history 25 Nov 2020 Most viewed Most viewed Education Schools Teachers Universities Students News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)