Trump insists Iran talks are underway despite Tehran's denials Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Politics & Policy Trump insists Iran talks are underway despite Tehran's 'duplicitous' denials Published Sun, Aug 2 2026 10:23 PM EDT Updated Mon, Aug 3 2026 12:39 PM EDT Kevin Breuninger @KevinWilliamB Anniek Bao @in/anniek-bao-460a48107/ @anniekbyx WATCH LIVE Key Points President Donald Trump insisted talks between the U.S. and Iran are ongoing, pushing back on Tehran's claims to the contrary. Trump again asserted the U.S. is in full control of the Strait of Hormuz. Shipping risks persist even as diplomacy has advanced, with a U.K. maritime agency reporting an incident in the northeast of Oman. A parallel track with Muscat is also advancing with Iran-Oman negotiations over the strait reportedly in their final stages. In this article @LCO.3 Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT US President Donald Trump speaks during a Cabinet meeting at Camp David in Maryland, on July 31, 2026. Aaron Schwartz | AFP | Getty Images President Donald Trump on Monday insisted talks between the U.S. and Iran are ongoing after Tehran undermined him by saying it had no plans for direct negotiations with Washington. Trump, in an angry Truth Social post , called the Islamic republic's leaders "unbelievably duplicitous" and accused them of lying about peace talks that are underway "whether Iran wants to admit it or not." He also once again asserted the U.S. is in full control of the Strait of Hormuz, even though ship traffic through the economically vital waterway remains stuck at a fraction of its prewar averages. "Nothing gets through to Iran, unless we want it to, and nothing will get through, unless a Deal, or Total Surrender, is accomplished," Trump claimed in the post. Earlier Monday, Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Esmail Baghaei said at a news conference that there is no immediate plan for negotiations with the U.S. — undercutting Trump, who had said hours earlier that talks would restart Monday afternoon. Tehran is currently only engaged in talks with Oman regarding the strait, Baghaei said. The disparate messages from the two sides added to confusion about the status of peace talks and of the war itself, which is entering its sixth month. Trump's claim about new negotiations came a day after he said on Truth Social that he had agreed to cancel a massive strike against Iran "subject to being able to rapidly make a DEAL." He said in the same post that Iran and other Middle Eastern countries had asked him to hold off on that attack because "the perimeters of a deal has been agreed to." Trump has claimed dozens of times throughout the more-than-five-month-long war that a deal is at hand . No permanent deal has been signed, and a temporary ceasefire reached in June has fallen apart. Trump has also repeatedly threatened to launch devastating strikes against Iran before backing off . After the latest example, oil prices on Monday fell and stocks surged . BMI, a research unit of Fitch Solutions, said in a note Monday that a broader diplomatic understanding on reopening the Strait of Hormuz is still achievable this quarter, while raising the probability of its escalation scenario to 35% from 25%, citing mounting military, diplomatic and economic signs of rising U.S.-Iran tensions. "Diplomatic progress is likely to be punctuated by periodic military flare-ups, while miscalculation by either side could trigger a renewed escalation," BMI analysts wrote in a note. The firm said the key issue to watch is the future governance of the strait, as the Iran-Oman talks — potentially backed by Gulf states, China and the U.S. — point to efforts to build a post-conflict shipping framework. Shipping risks persist even as diplomacy appears to be advancing. The United Kingdom Maritime Trade Operations Centre said it received a report of an incident 20 nautical miles (23 miles) northeast of Khasab, Oman — at the mouth of the strait — with a tanker's master reporting an explosion in close proximity to the vessel at about 20:37 UTC Sunday (4:37 pm ET). The vessel and crew were safe and authorities are investigating, UKMTO said, advising ships to transit with caution. The proposal Trump announced over the weekend calls for the U.S. and Iran to return to negotiations and continue ironing out some of the thorny issues that had derailed diplomatic efforts, according to The Associated Press, citing a regional official involved in the mediation efforts. The official said the proposal also includes a reopening of the Hormuz Strait and halting attacks across the region, including by Iranian-backed militias in Iraq on the Arab Gulf countries and Jordan. The U.S., for its part, will end its naval blockade on Iran and allow Tehran to export its oil, the official said, adding that no deal has been reached, although the mediation efforts remained underway. watch now VIDEO 4:41 04:41 Iran war will probably endure until the fall, says Brookings’ Michael O’Hanlon The Exchange Trump's weekend reversal has lowered the temperature after days of escalating attacks across the Gulf. Kuwait said Saturday that Iranian forces launched a wave of drones within its airspace, with its military destroying multiple aircraft after Iran targeted critical infrastructure in the country's north. A parallel track with Muscat is also advancing. Iranian diplomats said Tehran was close to reaching a new arrangement with Oman to manage shipping through the Strait of Hormuz, a deal critical to preventing the war from escalating further, according to the Financial Times . Iranian officials said negotiations over future management of the Hormuz Strait with Oman, which sits on the opposite shore of the waterway, are in their final stages. The agreed shipping route would be different from those used before, according to Iran's Foreign Ministry spokesperson, Baghaei, adding that the new route was separate from the issue of the strait's reopening or continued closure. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by