That's a wrap - Live Updates - POLITICO Skip to Main Content Europe Pro E&E News Search Search WASHINGTON & POLITICS Congress White House Supreme Court and Legal Issues Magazine 2026 Elections Latest on POLITICO STATE POLITICS & POLICY California Florida New Jersey New York GLOBAL POLITICS & POLICY Brussels Canada United Kingdom France Germany Australia POLICY NEWS Food and Agriculture Cybersecurity Defense Education Energy and Climate Tax, Finance and the Economy Health Care Labor Tech Trade Transportation NEWSLETTERS Playbook West Wing Playbook Inside Congress POLITICO Forecast POLITICO Magazine All Newsletters COLUMNISTS Alex Burns Victoria Guida John Harris Debra Kahn Jonathan Martin Nahal Toosi All Columnists SERIES & MORE Inside Congress Live Breaking News Alerts Podcasts Video Matt Wuerker Cartoons Cartoon Carousel The POLITICO Poll POLITICO Live Events Follow us X Instagram Facebook LinkedIn My Account Log In Log Out Up next That’s a wrap World Cup 2026 Jul 19, 2026 First read That’s a wrap Latest 2034 cup ... in 2035? Moroccan and Saudi World Cups draw human rights concerns The World Cup’s missing country NYNJ no more? LA’s next mega-event test See All Posts POLITICO Forecast Global power is in flux. Your daily guide to what comes next. Sign up Follow us on X Jul 2026 Final whistle. After six weeks, that’s a wrap on our World Cup coverage and live analysis — tracking not the goals and games, but the power plays, political battles and geopolitical stakes shaping the tournament. Thanks for following along. POLITICO Staff 07/20/2026, 12:00am ET Share: Continue on to view the day's latest updates Jul 2026 Will the 2034 cup be in 2035? Ramadan, Hajj, the Winter Olympics and rising global temperatures are boxing FIFA into an unprecedented scheduling dilemma. Zoha Qamar 07/19/2026, 11:32pm ET Share: Saudi Arabia’s 2034 World Cup may not be a 2034 World Cup at all. The tournament is unlikely to be played in the summer — and the calendar math could push it into 2035. FIFA has, of course, switched the World Cup to winter before to avoid playing games in intense summer heat, with Qatar’s 2022 tournament the first to ever break from seasonal tradition. But that Gulf precedent won’t carry to Saudi neatly. In 2034, Ramadan is slated to fall around Nov. 12 through Dec. 12 — squarely in the late-year window that Qatar used. In Muslim countries, Ramadan does far more than shuffle mealtimes and deepen prayer. The rhythm of public life bends completely, with social, civic and work schedules pushed later into a day defined by the night. A Saudi World Cup during Ramadan would solve one problem only by creating another. Alternative slots in 2034 are not much more forgiving. January and February would run into Salt Lake City’s Winter Olympics, splitting audience attention, sponsor dollars and media oxygen. Then around early March comes Hajj, a massive logistical undertaking that brings roughly 2 million pilgrims from across the world to Saudi for a highly coordinated week of rituals. Unlike a typical event on the global calendar, Hajj cannot simply be moved — its timing is set by the Islamic lunar calendar. Anything after that starts to nudge the tournament out of the cooler season that made summer untenable in the first place. All of this primes an option that otherwise sounds absurd: early 2035. FIFA has not indicated that it is considering such a move, but the calendar constraints make it a scenario that cannot be easily dismissed. The cleanest stretch looks to be between the Christmas-New Year’s time frame, which FIFA is sure to avoid, and Hajj, expected that year in mid-February. That leaves a plausible, though still narrow, six to seven weeks to stage a tournament across Saudi’s 15 proposed stadiums, possibly with 64 teams. That would be a tighter squeeze than this year’s 48 teams at 16 stadiums over five and some weeks. The scheduling bind sharpens a test of hierarchy in the global calendar: which dates become constraints and which become variables. The likelihood of another winter World Cup is already reviving 2022 resentment, especially in Europe, where it will interrupt club seasons. And that prospect feeds into a larger unease over Saudi as host, from human rights concerns that hang over the kingdom to the unusual circumstances surrounding its selection . FIFA has spent years trying to present Qatar, and now Saudi Arabia, as proof that world football’s governing body is becoming less parochial and more global. That framing also serves a commercial purpose, courting football audiences and markets beyond FIFA’s traditional centers of power. A World Cup competing with the host country’s religious observances would put all of that under obvious strain. Even Muslims with no affection for the Saudi state, including those well beyond the Gulf, are likely to view any FIFA conflict with Ramadan or Hajj as an overstep. Because the Islamic calendar is lunar, Ramadan and Hajj drift roughly ten days earlier each year, constantly shifting their collision points with global sports seasons. Hajj is a Saudi-specific factor, but Ramadan reaches across the Muslim world, a growing presence among host countries: Qatar in 2022, Morocco as part of 2030, Saudi Arabia in 2034. If that sequence hints at FIFA’s future, these calendar conflicts foreshadow a recurring tension. This year’s North American tournament has also revived a broader question: whether the summer months can remain the World Cup’s permanent home as temperatures rise. That could eventually force countries outside the Gulf to begin reconsidering their own seasonal blueprint, making Saudi 2034 less an anomaly and more a preview of what’s to come. Last October, FIFA President Gianni Infantino said that the soccer world should be more open-minded about tournament timing — suggesting that a game spread across climates and continents cannot expect to remain tied to the traditional June-July template. Lead Art: Cabo Verde players celebrate after a 0-0 draw during their World Cup match against Saudi Arabia on June 26, 2026 in Houston, Texas. | Michael Steele/Getty Images Jul 2026 Moroccan and Saudi World Cups draw human rights concerns FIFA must secure guarantees from the host nations that LGBTQ+ visitors will be protected from prosecution under laws criminalizing homosexuality, advocates say. Emilio Perez Ibarguen 07/19/2026, 10:58pm ET Updated: 07/20/2026, 2:22pm ET Share: Before the final whistle blows on the 2026 World Cup, a familiar tension is already bubbling ahead of its next two installments. Morocco, which will co-host the 2030 World Cup alongside Spain and Portugal, criminalizes same-sex sexual activity. And in Saudi Arabia, host of the 2034 tournament, homosexuality is understood to be illegal under Islamic law. Both countries submitted plans to address the potential human rights risks associated with hosting the tournament as part of their bids, but human rights advocates say the nations must guarantee that queer fans are not prosecuted under those laws. And they say FIFA, which has an ostensible commitment to fighting discrimination in football, should play a role in securing that. “It doesn’t mean that FIFA is the world police and somehow has the power to tell countries what to do with their laws,” said Steve Cockburn, Amnesty International’s head of labor rights and sports. “But it can certainly engage and use its leverage to put in place measures that would be protective of that.” The debate over what role FIFA should play in promoting human rights, and how far it should go to do so, is familiar to most fans of international soccer. FIFA drew criticism from international spectators when it announced ahead of the 2022 World Cup in Qatar that it would deliver a yellow card to team captains who donned the multi-colored “OneLove armband,” while the Qatari Emir said that all would be welcome so long as they respect the country’s culture. Critics also drew attention to Russian laws prohibiting so-called gay propaganda ahead of the 2018 contest. Morocco’s human rights strategy document notes that its independent human rights committee and the Moroccan Football Federation would “encourage both the parliament and the government to ratify key international conventions,” broadly referring to widely understood human rights standards, though the document did not explicitly mention discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. Saudi Arabia’s proposal similarly makes no explicit mention of addressing discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, but asserts that the federation would “continuously verify that our legislations and practices align with our commitments to various international agreements pertaining to anti-discrimination and implement any required enhancements.” The nation’s tourism ministry says on its website that it welcomes all people, but it asks visitors to “respect our culture and traditions and follow our laws as they would when visiting any other country in the world.” “Like other governments around the world, visitors are not required to disclose their personal information and we will respect visitors’ right to privacy,” its tourism FAQs site continues. The FIFA Congress, made up of its member federations, approved both uncontested bids. FIFA and the Saudi and Moroccan embassies in Washington, D.C., did not respond to requests for comment. Cockburn, whose organization authored a 2024 report slamming both the Moroccan and Saudi human rights strategies, said FIFA must go to greater lengths to guarantee that queer fans are protected while attending the games. That’s on top of the slew of concerns directed specifically at Saudi Arabia over workers’ rights and a lack of a minimum wage, contained in its report. Countries regularly guarantee bits of policy to FIFA during negotiations to host World Cups, including special tax arrangements and altered visa protocols. “There needs to be a bit more of an upfront, honest, grown up conversation about this, so that everyone’s clear, that it’s not fudged and that fans are not left guessing about what the situation is and how to look after themselves,” Cockburn said. The arrival of the world’s most watched sporting event in those two nations can contribute to “a fair degree of, sort of, cynicism or general, sort of, distrust” among some LGBT-rights advocacy groups that FIFA sometimes doesn’t take this issue on in a systematic way that we would all like to see, said executive director of FIFA’s anti-discrimination partner Fare network Piara Powar. “They just seem very kind of cautious around it and sadly it’s just not really taking us anywhere,” Jon Holmes, spokesperson for the group Football v Homophobia, said of FIFA. If history is an indication, however, it’s possible that such concerns over human rights at the World Cup could fade once the international drama of the tournament begins. Such was the case in the U.S., where concerns over potential ICE raids, overwhelmed logistical systems and more — which did cause some to boycott the games — largely faded away amid a wildly successful tournament. “We all kind of get lost in the event, and the narratives, and the storylines, and the athletes, and the beautiful game, and the cultures all coming together,” said Ryan Turcott, an associate professor at Gonzaga University who studies the politics of international sports. “But we lose track of the impact and the legacy when it comes to improving human rights.” CORRECTION: A previous version of this report misspelled Ryan Turcott's name. CORRECTION: An earlier version of this report misstated the year of the Amnesty International report on Moroccan and Saudi human rights strategies. The report was from 2024. Lead Art: A fan holds up a rainbow flag in the stands before the FIFA World Cup 2026 Group G match between Egypt and IR Iran at Seattle Stadium on June 26, 2026 in Seattle, Washington. | Richard Heathcote/Getty Images Jul 2026 The World Cup’s missing country The 2026 World Cup expanded to 48 teams, but China still couldn’t qualify. Now FIFA is eyeing another expansion — and the billions of fans it hopes China could bring. Emily Cadei 07/19/2026, 9:40pm ET Share: FIFA is expecting record-breaking revenue from the 2026 World Cup. But it’s still leaving a lot of money on the table — or more specifically, Chinese yuan. Despite the expanded field in this year’s tournament, China’s men’s national team still failed to qualify. FIFA is now talking about expanding again to 64 teams in 2030, with the implicit hope of pulling in the Chinese team and its massive market of soccer-obsessed fans. The running joke in Chinese online soccer forums is that the men’s national team may still not qualify, says Hong Kong University Professor Xu Gouqi, who wrote a 2008 book on the role of sports in China. “Chinese are not allowed to discuss many things in social media,” Xu noted in an interview. “But you can criticize the Chinese men’s football team with no consequences. It’s still a safe place.” In fairness, the men’s team has not given its fans much reason for optimism over, well, the last century. The squad was an Asian powerhouse back in the 1930s, but has only qualified for the World Cup once, in 2002, when it failed to score a goal in losing all three of its games. It’s not for lack of trying. Xi Jinping rode to power in China fresh off helming the wildly successful 2008 Beijing Olympics, and he’s keenly aware of how sports are intertwined with China’s sense of identity on the world stage, says Xu. One of Xi’s early promises: rebuilding the men’s national team to put it on a path to winning the World Cup by 2050, which is aligned with the Chinese Communist Party’s long-term blueprint for turning the country into a fully-modernized global superpower. So far, it hasn’t been going great. In the Asian qualifying tournament for the 2026 World Cup, the Chinese men’s team got pummeled 7-0 in one game against regional power Japan, while losing to Indonesia and tying Singapore (neither of which qualified, either). There are currently no Chinese men’s players playing in the top tiers of any of Europe’s professional leagues, a key metric of elite talent. Experts detail a number of reasons for the failures, including corruption and the CCP’s top-down approach to athletics. At a fundamental level, it comes down to the lack of grassroots participation, says Rowan Simons, a U.K.-born, Beijing-based author of a book on soccer in China and founder of ClubFootball Beijing. “China still needs to concentrate on building the football culture that is shared by all nations playing in the World Cup finals. This is built on large numbers actually participating in the game,” Simons said in an e-mail. As it stands, registered youth soccer participation in China is still just a fraction of countries with far smaller populations, like England. Xu agreed that while there is “a world class football fan base” in China, “you don’t get kids kicking the ball around” for fun the way you would see in say, South America or Europe. Parents view it as a waste of time “because the chance isn’t that great to succeed,” he said. Going to the best university is viewed as a more assured path. But unlike Simons, Xu is optimistic that the Chinese men’s team can not just qualify but win the World Cup in the coming decades, which he says would bring out a whole new level of soccer obsession in the country of 1.4 billion — a FIFA marketer’s dream. The answer, he says, lies in an approach China recently used to achieve Olympic success. Call it the Eileen Gu model. Gu, the daughter of a first-generation Chinese immigrant mother, was born and raised in Northern California but competes for China in freestyle skiing. Her gold and silver medals at the Winter Olympics in Milan-Cortina earlier this year made her one of the most decorated freestyle skiers in Olympic history. “We just simply bring the best and brightest from the kid level” to China from other countries, said Xu. That would represent “not just a major breakthrough in sports,” he argued, but “a major breakthrough in the idea of China.” Lead Art: Chinese fans of the Japan football team watching the 2026 World Cup Group at a bar in Shanghai. | AFP via Getty Images Jul 2026 Will New York, New Jersey do sports together ever again? The World Cup was a showcase for the region. It also revealed the challenges of a partnership built on necessity. Ry Rivard 07/19/2026, 9:29pm ET Share: The World Cup final wrapped up today in the portmandu place FIFA calls New York New Jersey. The two states, which shared responsibilities to host eight matches and the final, did so through an uneasy alliance . There were tit-for-tats over which state should get first billing on signs outside the stadium . Their two governors – both Democrats – released dueling transportation plans. Now, there is at least some evidence that if there’s a chance for them to work together again, New York may be reluctant to pair up with New Jersey – and if it does, officials may want to iron things out ahead of time. The two border states are thrown together for major sporting events because New York City is a global tourist destination with plenty of hotels, nightlife and attractions. But it has no major sporting venue that can hold more than 50,000 fans. Neighboring New Jersey has MetLife Stadium, which seats 80,000. The most public spat between the co-hosts came when New Jersey Gov. Mikie Sherrill said she planned to charge $150 to carry fans to MetLife Stadium for matches, a price she later lowered to $98. She portrayed the high ticket price as an affordability-minded decision to avoid making her residents subsidize World Cup-goers who may have thousands of dollars sitting around to pay for their seats. She also castigated FIFA for refusing to chip in to help pay for transportation. But New York Gov. Kathy Hochul went the opposite direction and helped lower the cost of a special bus to the matches to $20, viewing affordability in a different framework: how much it cost to get to the match. At the time, one New York lawmaker, Assemblymember Robert Carroll, who represents Brooklyn, said on X that decisions like Sherrill’s “ensure that the next time New York City hosts the world, partnering with New Jersey won’t even be on the table.” In June, Hochul tapped Carroll to help evaluate whether New York should bid for the 2042 Winter Olympics. In an interview before the World Cup final, Carroll said he didn’t anticipate working with New Jersey for the Olympics, because events could take place in the city and in Lake Placid, which has already hosted two Winter Olympics. Still, Carroll offered a more nuanced view than his social media post. He said the two states are linked for some events. But he remained critical of Sherrill and said things like the New Jersey Transit fares she imposed should be discussed if there is planning for a women’s World Cup, Super Bowl or other major event that involves both states. “We should not try to harm one another,” Carroll said. “I think that it was very foolish for the governor to kind of put up a punitive tax towards New Yorkers or New York tourists going to World Cup games. And that was a poor decision and I think it shouldn’t happen in the future.” Sherrill’s office referred a request for comment about Carroll’s comments to her previous remarks, but in a separate interview with POLITICO, the governor accused FIFA of trying not to pay its bills . There is also at least some thinking in New York that the city will have a place to hold women’s World Cup matches in 2031, when the U.S. is expected to host the tournament. A 25,000-seat professional soccer stadium, Etihad Park, is set to open next year in Queens. New York City’s top economic development official, Jeanny Pak, said during a recent event at the French consulate that she’d like to look at hosting the women’s tournament at the new stadium. “We’re really looking forward to that,” Pak said. “I think we’re really well poised to be the right place for it, so spread the word.” Lead Art: A general view as a drone show takes place over the New York Harbour, displaying a graphic of the FIFA World Cup trophy, in front of the Lower Manhattan skyline at Liberty State Park, July 17, 2026 in Jersey City, New Jersey. | Justin Setterfield/Getty Images Jul 2026 LA’s next mega-event test: The coming climate Olympics City leaders are spending billions to make the next great global sporting event held in America — the 2028 Olympics — a story of climate and environment policy progress. Alex Nieves 07/19/2026, 9:07pm ET Share: Los Angeles leaders are spending billions to make the 2028 Olympics a story of climate and environmental policy progress, reports Alex Nieves. Transit and community groups want to know whether the investment will be part of the region’s Olympic legacy or just a flash in the pan. The question of just how enduring their efforts will be was a throughline Tuesday and Wednesday at the Los Angeles Cleantech Incubator’s Road to 2028 summit — an event focused on leveraging the Olympic Games to accelerate clean energy and transportation development in the state’s most populous region. The overall vibe of the conference was an optimistic one, as Los Angeles County and dozens of cities are hustling to secure hundreds of buses, plant trees and clean waterways before millions of people descend on the region in two years for the Games. But some attendees were already wondering what comes after the two-week mega event is over. “When we look to the future, if once the games leave and we have not left communities better than the way we found them, then we have all lost,” said Cynthia Mitchell-Heard, CEO of the Los Angeles Urban League, speaking on a panel of grant recipients who’ve received funding from the LA Olympics organizing committee for environmental projects. (The Urban League received $100,000 to create a workforce development program for people affected by last year’s Altadena fire.) Catherine Baltazar, associate director of advocacy and organizing at Climate Resolve, argued that throwing dollars at infrastructure projects won’t guarantee long-term progress in communities that have historically lacked resources and disproportionately borne the brunt of climate change. “Investment should not end when the Games end,” Baltazar said. “We know that these communities will continue long after the Games, and so for me, that’s the legacy that I want.” The focus on the post-2028 future comes in part because of what was seen as a successful test run during this summer’s World Cup. The region hosted eight matches at SoFi Stadium in Inglewood, avoiding any major snafus while seeing a significant spike in public transit use. While the Olympics will be far larger than the World Cup, the region has structural advantages over many past Olympic host cities, including enough existing venues to house every sporting event. Much of the preparation now is centered on buying and leasing roughly 1,700 buses — including 500 electric school buses — to shuttle fans to and from venues that will be transit-only. Transit advocates argue that those investments, including recent expansions of Los Angeles’ light-rail system, don’t solve for structural budget deficits that could threaten service cuts — as bus and rail operators have already warned about farther north in the Bay Area . Los Angeles’ legislative delegation has failed the last two years to secure a boost in the state budget for systems like LA Metro, which faces a $2.3 billion deficit through 2030. Metrolink, a commuter rail line that serves six counties across Southern California, has indefinitely extended a 20 percent reduction in weekday service amid a $30 million deficit. Matt Petersen, CEO of the Cleantech Incubator, told POLITICO the budget challenge has only intensified under a Trump administration hostile toward clean transportation. “Local governments are struggling, states are struggling on how to put the resources where they’re needed,” he said. “I think the bottom line is: Without the feds, it’s super hard.” But he said he still believes that Los Angeles is “well on the way to being ready” for the Games and to leave a lasting benefit for the community. “That’s really what we’re here to do,” he said. “Ten years after the Games, what will we have seen manifest because of this moment?” Lead Art: Fencing with FIFA World Cup 2026 signage stands outside SoFi Stadium in Inglewood, Calif., Monday, June 1, 2026. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong) | AP Jul 2026 NJ Transit achieves its World Cup goooal! After a cursed 2014 Super Bowl, the underdog transit agency kept the trains (and buses) running on time for the world’s biggest sports event. Ry Rivard 07/19/2026, 9:00pm ET Share: There was another World Cup victory on Sunday — for one of the nation’s largest transit agencies. New Jersey Transit, which became infamous for disarray outside MetLife Stadium following the 2014 Super Bowl, carried soccer fans on its buses and trains there and back eight times since the World Cup began — without major incident. For anyone in the New York City metropolitan area used to experiencing or hearing gripes about New Jersey’s transit system — which a former governor repeatedly promised to fix , even if it killed him — this was as surprising as almost anything that happened on the soccer pitch. “The curse of Super Bowl 2014 is over,” New Jersey Transit CEO Kris Kolluri said Sunday evening during an interview inside the agency’s command center in the MetLife parking lot. That Super Bowl featured extreme delays getting American football fans in and out of the New Jersey swamp where the stadium is located. During this soccer tournament, the agency did end up carrying fewer passengers than expected, and the reasons for that remain up for debate. The agency has blamed the unexpected availability of parking spaces for fans at a nearby mall, as well as a cheaper bus service subsidized by New York Gov. Kathy Hochul. Others blame New Jersey itself because Gov. Mikie Sherrill decided the state would charge soccer fans $98 to get to games. Whatever the case, the system ran without any major meltdowns during matches despite some extreme weather that threatened to upend plans and affected other service. Kolluri, who spoke with reporters while surrounded by some of his team that’s been working on the World Cup for several years, turned the interview into a pep talk for the squad. As he spoke, trains were coming and going from MetLife handling the remnants of World Cup fans and, back in New York City — where most people were heading — there was a Yankees game and Bon Jovi concert at Madison Square Garden. Still, a screen over his shoulder with video feeds from bus and train platforms across the region showed things working smoothly. “The only reason why this worked is because of an extraordinary team who knew we were the underdog, and we were not going to let each other down,” Kolluri said. The agency is still figuring out how much it cost to provide the special World Cup service, which involved extraordinary measures, including having 80 train cars available to whisk trains away from the stadium. Lead Art: Brazil and Morocco fans board a New Jersey Transit train to Metlife Stadium in Secaucus, New Jersey, on June 13, 2026. | Adam Gray/Getty Images Jul 2026 Chicago passed on the World Cup but has other sports plans A whole new generation of sports teams is betting Chicago’s appetite for sports is bigger than its traditional loyalties. Shia Kapos 07/19/2026, 8:00pm ET Share: CHICAGO — The United States’ third-largest city felt confident passing on this year’s World Cup in part because the city’s sports loyalty was well-scripted. The Bears owned Sundays. The Cubs and White Sox divided baseball fans. And the Bulls still carry the glow of the Jordan dynasty. But a whole new generation of sports teams is betting Chicago’s appetite for sports is bigger than its traditional loyalties — and that fans are ready for something different. The WNBA’s Chicago Sky is preparing to host the league’s All-Star weekend July 23-26. The Chicago Stars are trying to build a women’s soccer franchise in a city with deep youth participation and a growing appetite for the sport. And the Chicago Fire are planning a new privately financed stadium in the South Loop and are investing heavily in youth development and facilities. The timing is notable. The city’s newest teams are making their pitch at the same moment two of Chicago’s oldest franchises are asking for help building new homes. The McCaskey family continues to pursue public assistance for a new Bears stadium, whether in Illinois or Indiana. White Sox owner Jerry Reinsdorf has sought public support for a proposed South Loop ballpark. Those requests have triggered a familiar debate: whether taxpayers should help finance stadium projects for billion-dollar sports franchises while governments struggle with schools, transit and other basic services. The newer teams are offering a different message. Chicago Fire owner Joe Mansueto, another Chicago billionaire, privately funded the team’s $750 million stadium, though the Chicago City Council earlier this week approved a $425 million tax subsidy to fund the surrounding infrastructure. Their pitch is not built around nostalgia but around investing in communities. At a sports and business forum at the Obama Presidential Center this week, Fire Chief Marketing Officer Dan Moriarty described a shift in how soccer is being consumed in Chicago. The sport’s audience is younger, more diverse and increasingly global, he said, with fans who already follow international clubs now looking for a local connection. He pointed to a simple sign of change: at Chicago farmers markets, soccer jerseys are increasingly common — even if many of them still carry the names of European clubs. The challenge, he said, is turning those fans into supporters of Chicago teams. “Soccer has this lifestyle aspect,” former U.S. women’s national team goalkeeper Alyssa Naeher said during the discussion. “It brings people together.” That may be soccer’s biggest advantage in Chicago. The city is already a global crossroads, with neighborhoods shaped by generations of immigrants and communities that have long embraced the sport. The Fire are betting that global stars can accelerate that connection. The club recently signed Polish striker Robert Lewandowski, one of the world’s most accomplished players, as part of a broader effort to raise the team’s profile. Women’s sports are riding a similar wave. “Women’s sports generally, and particularly soccer, has seen an evolution in this country,” said Laura Ricketts, who is a bridge to the old and new in sports. She’s a co-owner of the Chicago Cubs, an investor in the WNBA’s Chicago Sky and executive director of the Chicago Stars women’s soccer team. “What we’re now seeing [is] an explosion, especially in the NWSL,” she said of the National Women’s Soccer League. “We’re growing, and the best way [to see it is] our fan base is growing.” She compares women’s soccer today to the NBA or Major League Baseball of the early 1980s. “There’s just so much opportunity,” said Ricketts. Women’s soccer, she said, has benefited from decades of investment in youth leagues and college programs. That foundation is now translating into a professional audience. The growth is not just about attendance. It is about loyalty. Women’s sports fans, Ricketts said, tend to be younger and highly engaged, with a strong connection to the brands and communities supporting the teams. With World Cup interest, “We’re just seeing the tip of the iceberg for soccer in this country.” She said there’s been similar investment into basketball and she hopes Chicago sees the benefits of that as it hosts the WNBA All-Star weekend, marking three decades of the league. “The momentum continues right here in Chicago,” Sky co-owner Nadia Rawlinson said, describing the event as a celebration of how far women’s basketball has come — and how much further it can go. None of this means the Bears, Cubs, White Sox or Bulls are losing their place in Chicago’s sports hierarchy. But newer teams are making a case for a place alongside them. Lead Art: The Chicago city skyline is seen Aug. 27, 2025. | Erin Hooley/AP Jul 2026 Did World Cup permanently change ticket-price politics? A wave of fans left outside World Cup stadiums after buying “ghost tickets” has added momentum to state and federal efforts to crack down on speculative ticket sales. Gregory Svirnovskiy 07/19/2026, 7:45pm ET Share: Stories of fans left outside stadiums, duped by “ghost tickets” on resale platforms, were everywhere at this year’s World Cup. But advocates are hopeful the near-endless stream of negative headlines and angry supporters will spur long-sought-after laws to outlaw the practice of speculative ticket selling, when resellers put tickets they don’t yet have on the open market. At the state level, it would seem they’re right. Illinois, North Carolina and Washington, D.C. have all passed legislation banning speculative ticket sales since the beginning of the World Cup. Connecticut, Oregon and Vermont have also enacted ghost ticket bans this year. And Massachusetts Gov. Maura Healey announced her intention to file a bill prohibiting ghost tickets — among other consumer-friendly initiatives — on Thursday. “It’s definitely raising eyebrows in the state of politicians and legislators to really ban ghost ticketing, speculative ticketing,” said Scott Friedman, podcast host and co-founder of the Ticket Talk Network. “When you have it happen at this scale, that not just affects the United States, it’s a global tournament for heaven’s sake. Absolutely, change is coming.” “You see dozens of these bills percolating around the country,” said John Breyault, vice president of public policy, telecommunications and fraud at the National Consumers League. “Most of which have some kind of ban on speculative tickets.” There’s action at the federal level, too. Though advocacy groups aren’t exactly aligned on a path forward in Congress. Breyault and the NCL have been active in promoting the TICKET Act, which passed the House in April and moved through the Senate Commerce Committee in June. Proponents say the bill would ban speculative ticket sales and safeguard consumers against fraudulent ticket websites. “In this environment, where Republicans and Democrats can’t agree that the sky is blue on some days, that’s a rare occurrence,” Breyault said. But Stephen Parker, the executive director of the National Independent Venue Association, said the “you could drive a Mack Truck” through the TICKET Act’s ghost ticketing provisions. Music groups, too, have panned the bill, arguing it would still allow speculative ticket sales by permitting sellers to advertise ticket procurement services for tickets they do not yet possess. For now, Parker said, the most encouraging action is happening in the states. “This is happening across the country, and ultimately, what we are seeing is state legislators from both parties saying enough is enough. If Congress isn’t going to do something, we are, and we couldn’t be more grateful for their work.” Lead Art: Spectators wait in the stands for the presentation ceremony after Spain defeated Argentina in the World Cup final soccer match in East Rutherford, New Jersey, July 19, 2026. | Frank Franklin II/AP Jul 2026 New York, New Jersey to examine whether World Cup funds were money well spent The host committee released a study last summer predicting $3.3 billion in economic impact across New York and New Jersey. Ry Rivard 07/19/2026, 7:32pm ET Share: New York and New Jersey planned to spend roughly a half billion dollars hosting eight World Cup matches, including today’s final. But once it’s over, lawmakers in both states want to know if they got their money’s worth. In New York City, Councilmember Virginia Maloney, who leads the chamber’s committee on economic development, is going to lead that examination. “First I want to make sure we recouped our cost,” she said in an interview on Friday at a coffee shop in her Manhattan district, which includes the Upper East Side. “I’m not confident we can say that.” She said data seems mixed on how well hotels did because of the World Cup. Bookings initially appeared low, but it seems like hotels recovered closer to the matches. However, it’s not clear if that’s because of the World Cup or the other major events happening this summer in the city, including the July 4th festivities and the Knicks’ championship win — which means an analysis will have to try to untangle what economic activity happened because of the World Cup and what would have happened anyway. “What is irrefutable is that bars and restaurants were seeing a lot more activity and action in New York, and that translates into real economic benefit for New Yorkers,” Maloney said. Maloney attributes that to a lot of things, including a law signed by Gov. Kathy Hochul to temporarily extend hours for bars and restaurants. One report from the Queens Chamber of Commerce found a 30 percent increase in businesses for people going out to drink and eat. “The economic benefit was not necessarily people who were going to the World Cup, but just people participating in the summer of New York, going to all five boroughs to celebrate or be out together,” she said. The host committee released a study last summer predicting $3.3 billion in economic impact across New York and New Jersey, including about $432 million in state and local tax revenues. Maloney worried about rosy projections from FIFA and its boosters compared to the reality on the ground. A preliminary study by the host committee of just the group stage found $1.2 billion in direct economic impact, Bloomberg reported . Maloney views the experience as a learning opportunity for other big events the city puts on, including future political conventions and the 2042 Olympics, which the state and city are exploring a bid for. “It should be something that you can make a playbook out of, not where you’re starting from scratch every time there’s a major event,” Maloney said. Lead Art: President Donald Trump and FIFA President Gianni Infantino applaud as Spain's team captain Rodri lifts the trophy after winning the World Cup final soccer match between Spain and Argentina in East Rutherford, New Jersey, July 19, 2026. | Ashley Landis/AP Jul 2026 The ‘hopeless, bad people’ just won Donald Trump’s World Cup The U.S. president has relentlessly targeted Spain. Its soccer stars just had the last laugh. By Ali Walker , Sophia Cai , Ry Rivard and Aitor Hernández-Morales 07/19/2026, 6:30pm ET Lead Art: EAST RUTHERFORD, NEW JERSEY - JULY 19: Rodri #16 of Spain lifts the FIFA World Cup Winner’s Trophy alongside U.S. President Donald Trump and FIFA President Gianni Infantino after the team’s victory following during the FIFA World Cup 2026 Final match between Spain and Argentina at New York New Jersey Stadium on July 19, 2026 in East Rutherford, New Jersey. (Photo by David Ramos/Getty Images) | Getty Images Jul 2026 The Falklands, Johnny Infantino and an invisible man: A whirlwind review of the World Cup From A to Z, all the times politics intersected with soccer this summer. Ali Walker 07/19/2026, 6:28pm ET Lead Art: World Cup collage | POLITICO photo-illustration by Natália Delgado | Source images by Getty Jul 2026 White House FIFA Taskforce executive director Andrew Giuliani told me on Friday that he wanted this match to go to overtime. You might have called the overtime, I told him as the players prepared to return to the field after 90 minutes. “We can thank Martinez for playing out of his mind!!” he texted back, in reference to Argentina’s goalkeeper Emiliano Martinez. Sophia Cai 07/19/2026, 5:34pm ET Share: Jul 2026 Spot the pol! Study the photograph carefully. Only the political figure is missing. Guess who it is. POLITICO Staff 07/19/2026, 5:30pm ET Share: This Washington-based diplomat had two pieces of good news to celebrate on Saturday: a historically impressive romp in a meaningless third-place game and what his government considered a historically meaningful low number of citizens running afoul of American laws during the tournament. Soobum Im - FIFA/FIFA via Getty Images That’s Christian Turner, the United Kingdom’s new ambassador to Washington, at England’s semifinal defeat to Argentina in Atlanta on Wednesday. After Sunday’s third-place victory over France, Turner boasted in a social-media post that “with over 50,000 travelling fans over the tournament, only 23 consular cases” were handled by the country’s diplomats. Lead Art: Natália Delgado, POLITICO Jul 2026 All the president’s guests World leaders, royals and Trump allies join the president in his World Cup suite. Sophia Cai 07/19/2026, 4:52pm ET Share: President Donald Trump is watching the World Cup from a box with First Lady Melania Trump, Eric Trump and Barron Trump, the true soccer fan in the Trump family. Trump is with fellow North American leaders Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum and Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney. The trio is meeting in-person for just the second time (their first meeting was at the FIFA final draw in Washington). Also joining Trump in his box are King Felipe VI and Queen Letizia of Spain and Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez, who has clashed with Trump on defense spending and Spain’s refusal to allow the U.S. to use its military bases in its strikes against Iran. FIFA President Gianni Infantino is there of course, along with White House FIFA Taskforce executive director Andrew Giuliani, Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick, Secretary of State Marco Rubio, DHS Secretary Markwayne Mullin, Patriots owner Bob Kraft and Brian Kilmeade from Fox News. Lead Art: First lady Melania Trump, President Donald Trump, FIFA President Gianni Infantino and his wife Leena Al Ashqar, Spain's King Felipe VI, Spain's Queen Letizia and Spain's Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez stand for the national anthem ahead of the 2026 World Cup football final between Spain and Argentina in East Rutherford, New Jersey, July 19, 2026. | Odd Andersen/AFP via Getty Images Jul 2026 Shakira, Madonna, Justin Bieber, BTS and a coitier of other musicians and dancers just wrapped up a very Gianni Infantino coded half-time show at MetLife Stadium. Across the performances, but especially in visual displays on the field, there were snippets of his vision of soccer as a global unifying force. Dancers carrying colorful globes and flags with hearts on them. A series of letters came together to spell out “LOVE” with an image of the Earth as the “O.” Much of the halftime show took place atop a tarp covering the whole field with words and phrases in multiple languages, like “Purpose,” “Grow” “Future,” “Inspire,” and “We are all one in the universe.” Many of the fans stayed in their seats to watch. By Sophia Cai and Ry Rivard 07/19/2026, 4:29pm ET Share: Jul 2026 The World Cup final came to town. The town grew 8 times larger. Meet East Rutherford mayor Jeffrey Lahullier and the other parking-lot poobahs who rule over America’s stadium cities. POLITICO Staff 07/19/2026, 4:00pm ET Share: Forget Zohran Mamdani. The local elected official who really rules MetLife Stadium today is Jeffrey Lahullier, whose 10,000-person town sees its population swell by more than 800 percent whenever there’s an event at the stadium complex in the middle of his turf, writes POLITICO’s Will McCarthy: “When I tell people I’m the mayor of East Rutherford, they’re like, where’s that?” said Jeffrey Lahullier, the elected leader of a New Jersey town of 10,000 hosting this weekend’s final match. “I say, do you know where the World Cup’s being played?” It’s an inversion of American political power laid bare by the World Cup, where global events are often staged in municipalities with sometimes only a few thousand residents, forcing local officials to negotiate with billion-dollar franchises, international governing bodies and visiting heads of state. For decades, such suburban stadium cities — often considered little more than a landing pad for enormous, polygonal sports spaceships — have existed in a strange political limbo. They find themselves alternatingly privileged and bullied from the athletic behemoths in their backyards, which come with promising financial impact but deliver it only inconsistently. With the World Cup, what was often a source of local friction between local politicians and their most famous corporate citizens moved onto the global stage. —Will McCarthy “The World Cup came to town. The town grew eight times larger.” POLITICO July 18, 2026 Read Will’s story “The World Cup came to town. The town grew eight times larger” here . Lead Art: Jeffrey Lahullier, President of East Rutherford Historical Society, speaks during the re-dedication ceremony of Riggin Field in East Rutherford, New Jersey, on Oct. 14, 2018. | Mitsu Yasukawa/Northjersey.com via Imagn Jul 2026 FIFA’s soccer-agent rules survive EU court ruling … for now Two agents challenged several of the world governing body’s laws, arguing they unfairly restrict competition. Aude Van Den Hove 07/19/2026, 4:00pm ET Share: With the World Cup putting soccer firmly in the global spotlight, FIFA has scored an important — if incomplete — victory off the pitch. The EU’s top court on Thursday declined to strike down FIFA’s rules governing soccer agents. Instead, it handed the final decision back to a German court, which will now have to decide whether the regulations comply with EU law. The case was brought by two soccer agents who challenged several of FIFA’s rules, arguing they unfairly restrict competition and limit how agents can do business. The judges didn’t decide whether FIFA’s rulebook is legal or illegal. Instead, they said the German court must examine whether each restriction genuinely serves a legitimate purpose — such as protecting players or preventing conflicts of interest — and whether it goes no further than necessary. One rule, however, clearly caught the court’s attention. FIFA generally prevents agents from approaching players or coaches who are already represented by another agent until the final two months of an exclusive contract. According to the judges, that rule appears to protect established agents from competition and could amount to an abuse if FIFA holds a dominant position in the market. That doesn’t mean the rule automatically falls. Nor does it spell the end of FIFA’s broader regulatory framework. Other controversial measures — including limits on agents’ fees, licensing requirements and restrictions on representing multiple parties in the same transfer — could still survive. But they will now have to clear a stricter legal test before the German court. For FIFA, that’s enough to keep its rulebook alive. For soccer agents challenging the regulations, the judgment offers a clear roadmap for attacking the most restrictive parts. Lead Art: People walk away from the entrance of the European Court of Justice (SCJ) in Luxembourg, on Oct. 5, 2015. | John Thys/AFP via Getty Images Jul 2026 NEW YORK — Trump’s first World Cup appearance could double as a diplomatic obstacle course. From Canada’s Mark Carney to Mexico’s Claudia Sheinbaum, the leaders in attendance could make for some awkward moments after months of clashes with the president. Sophia Cai reports from the final. POLITICO Staff 07/19/2026, 3:51pm ET Share: Jul 2026 Europeans are much less likely than Americans to support the upcoming half-time show, according to recent polling by POLITICO. Half-time shows are a tradition in the Super Bowl, America’s flagship sporting encounter, but FIFA is bringing the fête to the World Cup for the first time Sunday. The imminent performance will be headlined by music superstars Justin Bieber, Madonna, Shakira and K-pop band BTS. On Tuesday, the BBC reported that the show could extend the halftime break for up to 25 minutes, longer than the standard 15-minute half-time. Just over half of U.K. respondents said they would oppose a half-time show, preferring that the U.S. and FIFA stick to soccer traditions. This was higher than other European countries polled, including Germany (48 percent), France (41 percent) and Spain (36 percent), but much higher than the mere 28 percent of Americans who were opposed. Unsurprisingly, older respondents were consistently less supportive of the half-time show than young people. Just 18 percent of 65+ Germans and Brits supported a show, compared to 45 percent and 42 percent of 18-24 year olds, respectively. FIFA chief Gianni Infantino said in May that the show will “touch the hearts of the people.” Jonas Loesel 07/19/2026, 3:30pm ET Share: Jul 2026 Spot the pol! Study the photograph carefully. Only the political figure is missing. Guess who it is. POLITICO Staff 07/19/2026, 3:00pm ET Share: This diplomat from a World Cup round-of-16 contender watched his country’s defeat to finalists Argentina with residents of Ramallah, in the Occupied West Bank. Mohammad Nazal/Middle East Images/AFP via Getty Images That’s Egyptian ambassador to Palestine Ihab Suleiman at the Ramallah fan zone with Palestinian sports officials who organized the public screening for Egypt’s match against Argentina on July 7. Lead Art: Natália Delgado, POLITICO Jul 2026 ‘They’re trying not to pay their bills': Sherrill unhappy with FIFA as World Cup wraps up Mikie Sherrill talks about New Jersey’s World Cup moment, FIFA and Donald Trump: “I just took him to court.” Adam Wren 07/19/2026, 2:55pm ET Share: Mikie Sherrill has embraced the World Cup like few other Democratic governors, save perhaps Gov. Josh Shapiro in Pennsylvania. She has been to seven matches, built a tight relationship with the former standout U.S. goalkeeper Tony Meola and will take in today’s final at MetLife Stadium in New Jersey. (She missed one match because she was working on her first budget). “There’s a lot of controversy over whether or not this makes sense. We’ll be doing all the math as these returns come in,” Sherrill said. “When I came into office, I really was focused on how to make this a net benefit for the state, and how to bring everyone into the state. If you’re going to host this game where one in three people in the world will be watching this final, you want the people of New Jersey to feel like they’re part of it, and not just that there are some elite people going to watch the game, but they’re actually able to take part in the excitement, and these fan zones have been really wonderful for that as well.” Six months into her term, Sherrill spoke exclusively with POLITICO to talk about her battles with FIFA, President Donald Trump and, also, how she ended up in a puddle of beer doing the viral Viking Row celebration with an army of Norway fans outside of MetLife. The interview has been lightly edited for length and clarity. How did you end up in that puddle of beer? I think we’ve seen all over the internet people who are loving our delis and our Wawas and enjoying the shore, and I think it’s just been such a fantastic feeling. And we had Norway come, and as you’ve seen on social media, they were rowing. I rowed at Navy my freshman and sophomore year at Navy, so I had a little bit of a kinship there to all the rowers coming from Norway. So when they were coming back to the stadium, we reached out and said, “Hey, are you guys rowing? We want to come touch base and welcome you to the state. And they said, ‘Yeah, come row with us.’ So I did, and it was really a lot of fun.” What have your battles been like with FIFA, particularly on cost-of-living issues? I would say everything we’ve gotten out of the World Cup, we built. I would really like to leverage it — if the Women’s World Cup is going to be in the U.S. — I would really like to leverage a little bit of what a special place it is to host a World Cup game here. And really try to leverage that for better benefits for the state because FIFA put nothing into this. I mean they’re making $11 billion and now they’re trying to sell grass, and they’re trying not to pay their bills. It’s really a problem. So you’d be open to being a host site again in 2031? If it made sense economically, yes. President Donald Trump — whom you have battled — will be at the final on Sunday. How are you going to handle that? What I think has been interesting is I think a lot of people went into Trump’s second administration thinking they had learned how to handle him in his first administration, and the word on the street seemed to be you just do an insane amount of flattery, and then get what you want, and just you know kind of work that way. You know, keep your head down, don’t say too much, just flatter the hell out of him, and then I’ll give you what you want. And I don’t think that has been the case in the second administration. And so we in New Jersey had a year of watching him operate, and every promise he made, he walked back. And so the art of the deal to Trump seems to be. Figure out what you want, leverage the heck out of you, and never give it to you. But try to have you sell your soul in the process. I just largely have focused on delivering for the people of New Jersey. And when he tries to punish people here in New Jersey, like when he tried to stop the Gateway Tunnel funding, when he gave out pink slips to the 1,000 workers that were already on the job, good union jobs. I didn’t try to cut some deal with him. I didn’t say I was going to name Penn Station after him or something because it wasn’t his money to leverage. I just took him to court almost immediately, and we won. And then he appealed it, and we won again. And now he’s, you know, said he’s going to build some mass detention facility in Roxbury in a warehouse that only has two bathrooms, and he thinks he’s going to put 2000 people in it. And there’s no sewersystem, so we took him to court, and we won. So it’s not that we’re throwing gratuitous punches here. I’m just constantly fighting for the people of New Jersey, and when he attacks them, I’m going to stand up. What are your predictions for the final on Sunday? Is Argentina going to prevail? How many goals is Messi going to score? What are some things that you’d make Kalshi bets on ? I don’t do Kalshi bets. But there are a lot of people from South America that live in New Jersey. A lot of our citizens have family there, and they’re going to kill me because nobody down there likes Argentina, right? But I will tell you, I… I feel like Argentina with Messi playing for the MLS. It’s just it’s almost like the closest thing we were getting this year to a hometown team. Lead Art: New Jersey Gov. Mikie Sherrill speaks at the Courage Can Save Us discussion at The 92nd Street Y, June 9, 2026, in New York. | Andy Kropa/Invision/AP Jul 2026 Spain or Argentina? Politicians are divided on the World Cup final We asked some of the most dedicated tourney followers in American politics to share their predictions for the final. Ali Walker 07/19/2026, 2:35pm ET Share: POLITICO asked some of the most dedicated tourney followers in American politics to share their predictions for the final. New York Gov. Kathy Hochul: “Coming from Buffalo, we root for the underdogs, those who have not had the championship. Argentina’s had their opportunity. When was the last time Spain won? That was a long time ago.” Rob Bonta, California attorney general, former Yale soccer player and father to professional soccer player Reina Bonta: “The South American champs vs. the European Champs. Messi vs Yamal. The current 39-year-old GOAT vs the 19-year-old wunderkind. Argentina vs Spain. Argentina has come from behind in the final minutes multiple times and grittily found a way to defend their World Cup title, led by the little magician #10. Spain dismantled France with their tiki-taka/rondo possession, tactical dominance and beautiful football on full display. Two teams at the top of their game, playing for the most coveted trophy in football. It should be a final for the ages! I’m so conflicted! Love them both.” San Francisco Mayor Daniel Lurie: “1-1 after extra time, Argentina wins on penalties. After what we have seen in three knockout games from Messi and his team, they will win back-to-back, and he will be considered the greatest player of all time, surpassing Maradona.” Mia Bonta, assemblymember and mother to professional soccer player Reina Bonta: “I’m rooting for Argentina, the team including Messi have just played a phenomenal, gritty tournament. But most Bontas are thinking Spain is going to walk away with the trophy.” Tammy Murphy, former first lady of New Jersey and current chair of the World Cup host committee: “As we approach the final, I’m wearing two hats. As chair of the New York New Jersey FIFA World Cup Host Committee, my focus is on delivering an exceptional experience for everyone — from seamless transportation and strong security to a safe, welcoming atmosphere and a lasting economic impact for our region. As a fan of the game, it’s hard not to get emotional knowing we’re about to witness Match 104 after an incredible 39-day tournament. While I have to admit I was disappointed to see England fall in the semifinal, given my family’s English roots on my mother’s side, it’s hard not to be excited about a historic first: the reigning European champions facing the reigning South American champions in a World Cup final. It has all the makings of an unforgettable match. Game on!” San Jose Mayor Matt Mahan: “Given San Jose’s Spanish roots as the first official pueblo in ‘Alta California,’ I’m going to call it 2-1 for Spain with a late-match Argentinian surge that falls just short.” Tom Steyer, Democratic megadonor, former California gubernatorial candidate and former Yale soccer player: Spain, 2-1. Randy Villegas, a Bernie Sanders-backed progressive running against GOP Rep. David Valadao: Spain, 2-1. State Sen. Ben Allen, chair of the Senate Special Committee on International Sporting Events: Could not comment because he was too devastated by England’s loss to Argentina. New Jersey Gov. Mikie Sherrill: “ In my heart, I just feel connected … to Argentina. In my head, I guess just watching Spain’s midfield, it’s hard to imagine that that doesn’t prevail.” Sen. Todd Young (R-Ind.): 2-1 Argentina, with a goal and an assist for Lionel Messi. Lead Art: A presidential helicopter arrives prior to the World Cup final soccer match between Spain and Argentina in East Rutherford, New Jersey, July 19, 2026. | Julio Cortez/AP Jul 2026 Mamdani’s NYC World Cup jerseys beat the bots The New York City-themed World Cup jerseys announced by Mayor Zohran Mamdani in June and released online from July 8 to July 16 sold out every morning within minutes. Alfred Ng 07/19/2026, 2:13pm ET Share: NEW YORK — There’s no bots about it. The New York City-themed World Cup jerseys announced by Mayor Zohran Mamdani in June and released online from July 8 to July 16 sold out every morning within minutes, though the Mamdani administration tells POLITICO there was no foul play involved. Frustrated shoppers suspected scalpers using automated bots to buy the jerseys within seconds during each morning’s release at 10 a.m., but New York’s Department of Citywide Administrative Services said it only detected two out of 3,500 orders that came from bots. “The NYC soccer jerseys have been tremendously popular—thousands have attempted to purchase through CityStore online every day. One thousand very real, very happy New Yorkers have already picked up their jerseys in person—we have not seen widespread bot activity,” a DCAS spokesperson said in a statement. The two detected bot orders were canceled, the spokesperson added. The jerseys’ high demand and low supply is a more likely explanation for why they sold out so quickly. The website limited releases to 500 jerseys every morning, and averaged 25,000 visitors to the store during the week it was for sale. DCAS said it used Shopify’s bot prevention services such as CAPTCHA tests and required in-person pick-ups to prevent automated purchases. Lead Art: New York City mayoral candidate Zohran Mamdani kicks a soccer ball in a screenshot from a Sept. 9, 2025 campaign video launching his Game over Greed campaign against FIFA ticket prices ahead of the World Cup. | Zohran for NYC Jul 2026 66% Sixty-six percent of Spaniards say they would feel pride if their country won the World Cup, just under Canada’s 67 percent for the highest level recorded in countries covered by the latest cross-border POLITICO Poll. (The United States was lowest, at 50 percent.) As was the case in other European countries surveyed, supporters of Spain’s right-of-center parties are the most likely to say pride would accompany soccer victory, including 83 percent of likely voters for Spain’s opposition People’s Party. Follow other findings from the latest POLITICO poll here . POLITICO Staff 07/19/2026, 1:48pm ET Share: Jul 2026 “A mini-United Nations mixed with the Oscars” The head of New York New Jersey’s host committee on what he’s going to tell FIFA in their post-tournament debrief. Ry Rivard 07/19/2026, 1:45pm ET Share: Long before the first World Cup match was played this year at MetLife Stadium, the head of the New York New Jersey host committee, Alex Lasry, was among the organizers with something to prove: That the U.S. should not have to wait another three decades to host the next one. The 32-year gap between the 1994 men’s World Cup and this year’s was something American soccer boosters don’t want to repeat. And, when the dust settles after today’s final, Lasry is going to head into meetings to debrief with FIFA and the White House about how things went this time around. That could provide lessons for a 2038 World Cup bid, but also be useful as the U.S. prepares for global sporting events already on the books, including the 2028 Olympics in Los Angeles and the 2031 women’s World Cup. In an interview days before the final — when major air quality concerns that have since abated were top of mind — Lasry wasn’t ready to take a victory lap, but he was also looking ahead. The interview has been edited for clarity and length. So this is the big one. Are there any things you’re changing in your approach or that the security situation warrants? Will a fan who’s been to the previous seven see anything different this time around, or what’s the expectation? The final is obviously its own animal. We’re kind of looking at this as like a mini United Nations mixed with the Oscars. So it’s going to have its own set enhanced security protocols. But we also don’t need to recreate the wheel here. We had a very successful first seven games on ingress and egress. So for us, it’s just how can we make sure that we’re working, with the extra set of circumstances that that we’ve got. Have there been conversations already with your host committee, with FIFA folks about lessons learned and how you make a good 2038 bid? We’re planning to do a debrief with FIFA at the end of this. So I’ve got meetings scheduled actually with the White House Task Force and with FIFA for the two weeks following the final. So definitely going to make sure we get a debrief on everything. And look, I think we have shown as a country, but especially as a region, to be exceptional hosts. I think anyone, whether it’s the World Cup, an Olympics, you name it — the first place they should be looking if they want a successful event is New York New Jersey. An ultimate bid for 2038 or any other time will be obviously up to U.S. Soccer and and FIFA, but I think the U.S. should be hosting the World Cup every four years, and I think we’ve shown why. Do you have advice for L.A. in ’28? Everything should be fan-centric. Everything should revolve around what’s important to the fans. They are who comes first for these events. We talk to fans every game and try to make adjustments based on what we hear. People are curious, What’s next for you? A. First is to reintroduce myself to my wife and kids, and then take my wife on a nice vacation that she probably deserves more than anything. And then, take it from there. Lead Art: Alex Lasry, CEO of the FIFA World Cup 2026 NY-NJ Host Committee, listens as New York Mayor Zohran Mamdani makes a World Cup soccer tournament announcement at Harlem Tavern, Thursday, May 21, 2026 in New York. | Adam Gray/AP Jul 2026 Did MAGA ever really fall in love with the world’s game? From Christian Pulisic’s dance moves to the “Country Roads” phenomenon and the White House’s red-card politics, inside the American right’s summertime fling with soccer. POLITICO Staff 07/19/2026, 1:15pm ET Share: Our Adam Wren spent the last six weeks exploring the summer’s most unlikely fling: between Donald Trump’s MAGA movement and the communitarian, cosmopolitan sport whose flagship event he embraced. The most technically gifted American soccer player of his generation was immediately dubbed the “MAGA Messi,” a left-wing insurgent on the soccer pitch revealing himself as a right-winger off it. Nearly two years out from the U.S. hosting the World Cup during the nation’s 250th birthday, Pulisic’s impromptu choreography represented a “pendulum” moment, two-time World Cup competitor-turned-American-soccer-edgelord Alexi Lalas told me . A pastime of the immigrant communities and college-educated suburbs that make up Blue America, Lalas argued, was about to finally catch on in the red parts of the country. In the run-up to the tournament, Trump did everything in his power to make the World Cup his own. He coddled FIFA President Gianni Infantino, a Swiss-Italian attorney, in a whirlwind bromance: Infantino appeared with Trump more than any other world leader last year, and Trump reciprocated by treating the Zurich-based nonprofit more kindly than any other international institution he had ever encountered. It probably did not hurt that FIFA was the only one to invent a peace prize just for him, compensation for being overlooked by the Nobel committee. Lalas hailed Trump as “the Soccer President.” From Pulisic’s dance to the kickoff of this World Cup, everything seemed to be lining up for Trump to deliver what would be one of his most important and potentially enduring cultural victories: helping to bring the world’s game to a country that had been slower than nearly all its economic peers to accept it. (“America’s Sport of the Future. As it has been since 1972,” soccer outlet Men in Blazers likes to say. ) Longtime observers of soccer’s struggle to break out of a blue cultural ghetto marveled that one man was about to sell his followers — devotees of the speed and crunch of NASCAR, mixed-martial arts and the NFL — on the communitarian, cosmopolitan, often ponderously low-scoring enterprise Tucker Carlson had called “evil, just the first step toward one world government” and former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon dismisses as “the World Economic Forum on a pitch.” Could MAGA really embrace a sport with a reputation at odds with just about everything the movement claims to hold dear? —Adam Wren “America First, Soccer Second” POLITICO Magazine July 19, 2026 You can read Adam’s POLITICO Magazine piece, “America First, Soccer Second” here . Lead Art: Left: Jon Jones reacts after his TKO victory against Stipe Miocic in the UFC heavyweight championship fight during UFC 309 at Madison Square Garden in New York, on Nov. 16, 2024. Right: Christian Pulisic celebrates after scoring a goal during the 2024 Concacaf Nations League Quarterfinals second leg match between Jamaica and the U.S. at Citypark in St Louis, Missouri, on Nov. 18, 2024. | Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC via Getty Images; Joe Puetz/ISI Photos via Getty Images Jul 2026 Mamdani’s World Cup diplomat “Soccer is a world game, and the World Cup is a tournament that brings everyone together,” Maya Handa said. Ry Rivard 07/19/2026, 1:09pm ET Share: Mayor Zohran Mamdani has been using weeks of World Cup festivities to welcome diplomats and soccer officials from around the world, hosting a mix of watch parties, pickup games at his official residence and more traditional meetings and press conferences. During his first weeks in office, Mamdani tapped his former campaign manager, Maya Handa, to be the city’s World Cup Czar. In an interview, Handa said one goal was to send a message to international tourists and also the city’s own immigrant communities. “We know that this is a moment in which it’s more important than ever to make sure that folks around the world understand that New York welcomes them,” she said. Much of the diplomacy and relationship building happened at Gracie Mansion around a series of pickup soccer games. On June 11, the mayor invited diplomats from all the countries playing in the group-stage matches at MetLife Stadium — France, Senegal, Panama, Ecuador, Germany, England and Norway (with Brazil unable to attend) — as well as consuls general from Mexico, Canada and South Africa. Last week’s game featured diplomats and diaspora residents from Cape Verde and Uzbekistan, two nations that competed in the World Cup for the first time. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees donated soccer balls designed by a refugee artist to Gracie Mansion and Mamdani also met with the executive director of UN-Habitat, Anacláudia Rossbach. The mayor also met or appeared with iconic players. He attended a watch party in Queens on Juneteenth with Brazilian legend Walter Casagrande, who is also a pro-democracy protester and is a longtime ally of President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva. Mamdani also appeared in Central Park alongside George Weah, the footballer who went on to lead Liberia and is the father of American player Tim Weah. The Central Park event to announce a free watch party also featured an appearance by Gianni Infantino, the head of FIFA, an organization Mamdani has been critical of but struck a deal with to offer low-cost tickets. After that announcement wrapped up, a few people lingered to kick around. Handa played goalie, deflecting balls so thoroughly a few flew out of the park onto the sidewalk. Mamdani also met with former French national player Paul Pogba at City Hall for a jersey swap . Other meetings were with top diplomats. There have been a few other meetings, including one in which Mamdani and Handa sat down with the Royal Netherlands Football Association and consul general of Netherlands ahead of the World Cup. During the first game at MetLife Stadium, Mamdani met with Moroccan Ambassador Youssef Amrani, whose country will be co-hosting the 2030 World Cup. He’s also dispatched other top aides to meetings. The director of the Mayor’s Office of International Affairs, Sebastian Sharma, spoke to a business delegation from Morocco’s University Mohammed VI Polytechnic; Handa spoke at the German House of Soccer in Chelsea at gathering of business, sports, diplomatic and civic communities to celebrate the Germany–NYC relationship; and his top economic development official, Jeanny Pak, participated in a fireside-style chat at the French Consulate with Philippe Diallo, president of the French Football Federation. In the interview, Handa talked more about the weeks of diplomacy and some of the relationships that extend beyond soccer. This interview has been edited for length and clarity. What was the logic, the focus, the goal, if you will — what were you trying to do? Soccer is a world game, and the World Cup is a tournament that brings everyone together. And so the mayor basically wanted to maximize this opportunity to build relationships with the international community and to kind of make it clear that New York City welcomes everyone and that this country and our city are a leader in the world stage. And so we did a ton of different stuff to make sure that we were building those relationships and able to engage with the community. And were there particular things that you wanted to talk about besides soccer? We had some really good conversations, honestly, about the diaspora communities in New York. It was both what folks are planning around the World Cup, how the fan delegations are experiencing the city. We were able to do this really exciting project with the host committee on wrapping the trains and creating fun activities for folks to celebrate their country. And I know there was also a lot of conversation around attracting investment and marketing New York, so we did this Choose NYC summit with EDC that we invited a bunch of international business delegations from. And the idea here is New York should be a home for your business overseas, and so that was also a big piece of it. There was some concern early on that doesn’t seem like it came to pass with ICE and with the Trump administration really throwing a cog in the wheels here. Is it fair to say that things were not a disaster, that Trump sort of restrained the federal government, that it was actually pretty good so far, one game left? I hope that the atmosphere on the ground speaks for itself. I always hesitate to speak too soon. But I think it’s been a really exciting summer. I think, honestly, we’ve been pleased with the partnership at all levels and across states. I think everyone understands that this can be a win-win for everyone, and a lot of people worked hard together to make it happen. Were there things you worried about? I saw some of the Twitter commentary on the Iran-wrapped train . Were there things that you were like, well you know, this is how we welcome people, but we’re gonna get a couple of nasty tweets about it, or a New York Post headline, or something. How did you sort of balance being welcoming with being criticized for being welcoming? You know, if the worst thing that happens is that we are criticized for being welcoming, then I think we are being how we want to be. I think that’s our values, is to make sure people understand that the city is for everyone. And we were very, very proud to be loud about that during this World Cup. Was there anybody during the pickup game that it was clear they just wanted to play with the mayor, but they were definitely a baseball person? I’ll respectfully remain silent on that matter, in the spirit of international diplomacy. Lead Art: New York City Mayor Zohran Mamdani, center, joined by, from left, United States soccer star Tim Weah NYC World Cup Czar Maya Handa, and New York council member Yusef Salaam, makes a World Cup soccer tournament announcement at Harlem Tavern, Thursday, May 21, 2026 in New York. | Adam Gray/AP Jul 2026 Ireland’s World Cup play Ireland is hoping the global sporting spotlight surrounding the World Cup will also shine on its growing sports technology industry. Sophia Cai 07/19/2026, 12:54pm ET Share: Ireland is hoping the global sporting spotlight surrounding the World Cup will also shine on its growing sports technology industry. Enterprise Ireland, the Irish government’s trade and innovation agency, has been working to help Irish companies expand in the U.S., from sports analytics firms to the Irish company behind the natural grass used at nine World Cup stadiums. POLITICO spoke with Aidan McKenna, Enterprise Ireland’s head of U.S. operations, about Ireland’s sports tech ecosystem and how Trump administration’s trade policies have shaped the agency’s approach. This interview has been edited for length and clarity. Ireland has developed a reputation in sports technology. Why has the sector become such a strength? I think there’s probably two big aspects to this. It’s probably just our passion for sports, all types of sports: soccer, rugby, our own national Gaelic football. But we also, given our cultural connections to the U.S., we have a really good understanding of U.S. games. We have a growing number of technology companies that are looking to bring data and health science into the professional area of sports. An Irish company is also behind the playing surface at several World Cup venues. Tell us about that. McKenna: SIS Pitches originated in Ireland. They designed a way to grow natural grass and sod in a certain environment that can be lifted and transplanted into these stadiums.They’ve become world leaders in kind of natural grass solutions for stadiums all over the world. It is really nice to say that an Irish company is behind growing the best possible surface for our world-class players at the World Cup, and nine stadiums have used their solution. Beyond the World Cup, what role do you see Ireland playing around the 2028 Los Angeles Olympics? We’re a proud sporting nation. We punch above our weight. We will have our top athletes come to LA, and I know we’re going to be based in Long Beach, and we’re going to ensure that the Irish athletes are supported. How has the Trump administration’s approach to Europe and trade changed how Enterprise Ireland thinks about investing or expanding in the U.S.? Enterprise Ireland, or indeed Ireland and the EU, would always advocate against any trade barriers. Where there’s tariffs, or non-tariff barriers, it makes the opportunity for trade more difficult. But the U.S. is a fantastic market. It’s a huge market. It’s the largest market in the world. What we’ve done in Enterprise Ireland is remind the U.S. administration that Irish companies are making a contribution to the U.S. The top 10 Irish companies employ 125,000 Americans in highly highly skilled jobs here. Has that environment changed what it means to be an Irish exporter? We would always advocate: if you want to do business, you have to be closer to customers, you have to give your customers confidence that you’re close to them. We have always advocated that to be successful in the overseas market, you got to be committed, you got to be in the market. I’m actually actively fast-tracking the amount of Irish companies that are establishing a presence in the U.S. So in New York, we’ve done what we call a landing pad accelerator so companies can get the right legal advice, get the right tax advice, develop your go-to-market strategy, hire the right people. And we encourage the founders of the Irish businesses to come in and spend a couple of years here, carry their culture, bring that into the U.S. teams. Finally, what role can sports play in strengthening U.S.-Irish ties? Sport is a brilliant bridge. It’s a brilliant arbitrator of bringing people together... We’re going to host the Ryder Cup in Adare Manor in September 2027. We’re going to open up Ireland to businesses, to people, to golf enthusiasts. The World Cup itself — it’s a fantastic celebration of what’s good in the world. Lead Art: Plans to sell World Cup turf from MetLife Stadium in New Jersey has sparked bipartisan concern about the proceeds. | Yuki Iwamura/AP Jul 2026 How the World Cup reignited a political battle over the Falklands Milena Wälde 07/19/2026, 12:14pm ET Share: Argentine President Javier Milei declared that his government is “getting closer every day” to recovering sovereignty over the Falkland Islands, escalating a diplomatic row stemming from Argentina’s politically charged World Cup victory over England earlier in the week, reports Milena Wälde. Writing on X Thursday, Milei mocked Britain’s reaction to the albicelestes’ post-match celebrations. “While some are busy throwing tantrums befitting a terminally mononeuronal teenager, we, through the diplomatic route, are getting closer every day to the recovery of the Malvinas Islands, Georgias, and South Sandwich Islands, and the surrounding maritime space,” he wrote. His remarks came in response to a post by Marc Zell, chair of the U.S. Republican Party’s branch in Israel, urging the Trump administration to reconsider long-standing U.S. policy on the Falklands and support Argentina’s sovereignty claim. During Wednesday’s World Cup semifinal, Argentina’s players unfurled a banner reading “Las Malvinas son Argentinas” (“The Falkland Islands are Argentinian”) after beating England. British Business Secretary Peter Kyle called the display “entirely inappropriate” and urged FIFA to investigate, while Prime Minister Keir Starmer’s spokesperson declared: “The World Cup might not be ours, but the Falkland Islands definitely are.” Ahead of the match, Argentine Vice President Victoria Villarruel had described Britain as “usurping pirates.” FIFA said Thursday that its independent disciplinary committee was reviewing the match reports and the circumstances surrounding the incident before deciding whether to open disciplinary proceedings. Argentina’s football association was fined in 2014 after displaying the same slogan before a friendly match against Slovenia. The Falklands, known in Argentina as the Malvinas, have remained at the center of a sovereignty dispute for decades. Britain and Argentina fought a brief war over the South Atlantic archipelago in 1982, after which London remained in control of the islands. Milei also defended Argentina’s players, calling their banner a legitimate expression of national feeling. “The Malvinas are Argentine, we are going to recover them and we are going to do it at the diplomatic level,” the president told Radio El Observador. Just a day earlier, Milei had urged Argentines not to mix football with the sovereignty dispute, dismissing such displays as “cheap gestures of patriotism.” Lead Art: “The Malvinas are Argentine, we are going to recover them and we are going to do it at the diplomatic level,” President Javier Milei said. | AFP via Getty Images Jul 2026 Climate ambitions shrink at America’s World Cup By Sara Schonhardt and Corbin Hiar 07/19/2026, 12:00pm ET Share: In 2022, Qatar made a dubious pledge to host the first carbon-neutral World Cup. Four years later, the United States, Canada and Mexico have overseen a much larger tournament — but limiting climate pollution is no longer a goal, write Sara Schonhardt and Corbin Hiar. The 2026 men’s World Cup could be the most emissions-intensive tournament in the event’s history. To some extent, that was expected. FIFA, international soccer’s governing body, expanded the lineup this year from 32 teams to 48 and spread the competition to 16 cities across an entire North American continent. The event comes as global temperature records continue to shatter, with dangerous heat blanketing the U.S. over the July 4 weekend and another heat dome expected in the U.S. this week for the competition’s final games. In addition, multilateral climate cooperation is fraying, and one of the key hosts, the United States, has a leader who calls climate change a con job. FIFA itself has struggled to implement a climate strategy it launched at U.N.-led climate talks in 2021. As part of that plan, FIFA committed to cutting its carbon emissions in half by 2030 and zeroing them out by 2040. It also said it would “review and adapt” regulations to support climate-friendly performance and publish a bi-annual climate report disclosing FIFA’s progress toward decarbonization. But only four of FIFA’s 18 emissions-reducing actions have made even marginal progress, according to a report by the New Weather Institute think tank, which looked at areas tied to the Qatar cup, including stadium certification, cooling technology, and the tournament offsetting programme. It predicts that this year’s World Cup will be one of the most polluting in history, responsible for at least 9 million metric tons of planet-warming emissions, and could lead to additional emissions in the future by bolstering sponsor Aramco, Saudi Arabia’s state-owned oil company. While no new stadiums have been built for the event, much of those emissions will come from increased air travel, the report says. England’s team, which has played games at six different stadiums across the U.S. and Mexico, has racked up more than 10,000 airline miles, according to The New York Times. FIFA has also said it will develop a greenhouse gas inventory for the 2026 tournament. But international soccer’s governing body has not set a firm public emissions target, pledged to neutralize the event’s carbon footprint or offered a clear comparison with prior cups. It hasn’t published a climate report since 2021. “There is no sign of the promised standardised greenhouse gas accounting methodology for tournaments, nor the global survey of football’s emissions. Worse, the bidding requirements for World Cups have actually moved backwards, as the 2026 process required a carbon footprint assessment while the 2030 and 2034 processes do not,” Freddie Daley, a researcher at the Cool Down Sport for Climate Action Network, which was involved with the New Weather Institute report, said in an email. “FIFA’s own targets don’t even cover the tournaments it coordinates, which is its largest source of emissions by far.” A FIFA spokesperson said the organization is committed to making the tournament sustainable, pointing to a sustainability strategy that “focuses on addressing emissions, improving resource efficiency and creating a positive legacy across host communities.” The spokesperson pointed to the use of existing stadium infrastructure for this year’s games and said FIFA requires that all stadiums achieve sustainable building certification, focus on reducing reliance on diesel generators and increase recycling. “During the event, FIFA will promote public transport, walking and cycling, in coordination with Host Cities and public authorities,” the spokesperson said. “In parallel, FIFA is supporting work that aims to plant one million trees through reforestation and community-based projects across North America, including all 16 Host Cities.” Lead Art: The 2026 men’s World Cup could be the most emissions-intensive tournament in the event’s history. | Paul Ellis/AFP via Getty Images Jul 2026 Following Messi’s lead, Milei bids to separate stadium and state The Argentine leader won’t be at the final in New Jersey. Here’s why he’s totally fine with that. Aitor Hernández-Morales 07/19/2026, 12:00pm ET Share: Looming over the World Cup final is another rivalry: the bitter feud between Argentine President Javier Milei and Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez. For the past two years, Argentina’s libertarian-populist leader has been embroiled in a war of words with his progressive counterpart in Madrid. Milei has resented Sánchez’s efforts to cast him as a far-right firebrand, and responded by repeatedly insulting the Spanish premier and his wife, Begoña Gómez, whom he has repeatedly called “corrupt.” In Buenos Aires, one leading political observer doesn’t expect the president to mix the World Cup final with his personal animus toward Sánchez. “I can’t imagine him trying to turn this match into a political issue,” Martín Rodríguez Yebra, deputy managing editor of Argentina’s leading conservative newspaper La Nación, told POLITICO . “It’s not in his interest.” According to Rodríguez Yebra, who has spent years following the Sánchez-Milei feud, Argentina’s leader has identified Sánchez — one of the world’s most recognized left-leaning political figures — as a useful antagonist in his “cultural battle” against “ woke forces around the world .” “He uses Sánchez almost as a punching bag to demonstrate that he’s confronting the international left,” he said, adding that the tactic plays well among Milei’s most devoted followers. But Rodríguez Yebra noted that for average Argentinians “who likely wouldn’t recognize Sánchez if he sat next to them in a café in Buenos Aires,” the contretemps is “a squabble that is seen as a random distraction” on most days, and which would be considered totally inappropriate to bring up in the almost sacred context of the World Cup final. “There are no words to accurately describe the idolatry people feel for our current national squad, which is perhaps the most admired in modern Argentine history,” he said. “And they — and in particular [Lionel] Messi, in his role as the squad’s captain — have made clear that they will not tolerate attempts at politicization.” In previous editions of the World Cup, Rodríguez Yebra said, Argentina’s national team had become mixed up with the country’s politics. The squad is widely considered to have been instrumentalized as a propaganda tool when the country hosted the 1978 tournament, when the government was in the hands of a military junta that carried out the forced disappearances of tens of thousands of political dissidents. A few years later, legendary squad captain Diego Maradona didn’t hide his close relationship with center-left populist President Carlos Menem, with whom he appeared on the balcony of the Casa Rosada presidential palace in Buenos Aires following the country’s 1986 World Cup win. Menem would eventually make the striker his government’s official “sports adviser” and even gave him a diplomatic passport usually reserved for high-ranking officials. Under Messi’s leadership, however, the national team has taken steps to distance itself from Argentina’s polarized political scene, and after winning the last edition of the World Cup, the squad declined an invitation from then-President Alberto Fernández to emulate Maradona and celebrate the victory at the presidential palace. Rodríguez Yebra said the current squad captain appeared to have been shaped by his lengthy professional career with FC Barcelona, which played out in parallel with the rise of the Catalan separatist movement and the unauthorized attempt to declare the Spanish region’s independence in 2017. “Despite the enormous pressure to do so, he never waded into the issue, and as captain for Argentina he’s taken the same approach and stayed on message,” he said. “Don’t mix us up in your politics: We’re athletes and we represent the entire country, not politicians.” The La Nación journalist pointed out that following the semifinal match against England, Messi stayed away when some of the victorious Argentine players unfurled a banner reading “ Las Malvinas son Argentinas ” (“The Falkland Islands are Argentinian”). “He doesn’t want to be involved,” he said. Rodríguez Yebra said Milei is a canny politician who attempts to align himself with overwhelming public sentiment and knows how to be pragmatic. That’s why his war of words with Sánchez has ultimately not had a significant impact on Spanish-Argentine relations. “Despite the inflammatory rhetoric between our leaders, the high-level officials below them have continued working together on trade, investment and international issues, including the recently concluded EU-Mercosur trade agreement ,” he said. “Ministers continue meeting, and diplomatic channels remain open even as the presidents trade barbs,” he added. “Milei insults Sánchez when it suits him, and right now, given the team’s insistence to keep politics out of the match, it is not in his interest to do so.” On Sunday, Argentina’s president will be playing the part of cheerleader-in-chief from Buenos Aires. While Sánchez will watch the match in person in New York , Milei will remain at home in an act of political superstition. “In 1990 Menem traveled to Italy to watch our team play against Cameroon and he ended up presiding over our most shocking World Cup defeat,” Rodríguez Yebra said. “The episode was politically devastating for him, because it caused him to develop a reputation for being jinxed, and since then our presidents have steered clear of the matches.” Rodríguez Yebra said Milei has every interest in doing whatever he can to ward off bad luck. Rising unemployment and corruption cases involving close aides have eroded the president’s approval ratings, with around 60 percent of voters saying they disapprove of his performance. While the lack of a serious political rival means that the populist remains the clear front-runner ahead of next year’s presidential election, an Argentine win on Sunday would still be a godsend. The same goes for Sánchez, should La Roja emerge victorious. Unlike Argentina, Spain’s unemployment is at a record low and the country’s economy is among the fastest-growing in Europe. But like Milei, the prime minister is grappling with damaging corruption scandals . Last month, the country’s former transport minister was handed a 24-year prison sentence for bribery, embezzlement and influence peddling, and earlier this week, Sánchez’s brother was found guilty of administrative misconduct after a regional court concluded he had been unfairly awarded a public sector position. “This World Cup has been a welcome distraction that has already helped him enormously, and could benefit him even further if it results in our team’s victory,” Rodríguez Yebra said about Milei. “Even without engaging in politics, a win for our team is a win for him.” Lead Art: Argentine President Javier Milei looks on during a ceremony honoring Malvinas Veterans Day on April 2, 2025, in Buenos Aires, Argentina. | Tomas Cuesta/Getty Images Jul 2026 Spot the pol! Study the photograph carefully. Only the political figure is missing. Guess who it is. POLITICO Staff 07/19/2026, 11:45am ET Share: This big-city boss is topped with an orange traffic cone in recognition of her city’s new trans-Atlantic kinship with a not-quite-a-country’s visiting fans. Christian Kantosky/The Boston Globe via Getty Images That’s Massachusetts Gov. Maura Healey, who arrived at Boston’s Logan Airport on July 14 to welcome the globe-trotting traffic cone — amazingly enough a Glasgow tradition — as a symbol of the new and unlikely friendship between Scotland and her state, which hosted Tartan Army fans over the summer. Lead Art: Natália Delgado, POLITICO Jul 2026 FIFA anti-discrimination partner warns against Olympic-style transgender ban The backlash comes after a Trump administration official told POLITICO it would press the international soccer body to align its policies on transgender athletes with those of the United States. Emilio Perez Ibarguen 07/19/2026, 11:30am ET Share: The head of FIFA’s anti-discrimination partner is calling on the international soccer body to not adopt a ban on transgender athletes at the Women’s World Cup, after the Trump administration publicly announced its intention to pressure the organization to do so last week. Andrew Giuliani, the head of the White House World Cup Task Force, told POLITICO Thursday that getting FIFA to guarantee that “women play in the Women’s World Cup and not biological men” could represent a lynchpin issue during planning negotiations for the 2031 tournament. If successful, the endeavor would represent a major victory for the Trump administration’s efforts to bar transgender women from competing in women’s and girls’ sports domestically and abroad. Earlier this year, the International Olympic Committee adopted a blanket ban for its female categories that paralleled an earlier White House executive order . But Piara Powar, the executive director of anti-discrimination group Fare network, warned that such a restriction would only further stigmatize transgender athletes and marginalize women with intersex characteristics. “We think it’s important that even if a ban comes into force for the World Cup in 2031 it should not be embedded in FIFA regulations permanently,” Powar wrote in a text message to POLITICO. “FIFA should not go the way of the IOC and exclude human beings from participation in football.” FIFA did not respond to requests for comment. The organization currently has no centralized sex-verification regime, instead requiring each national federation to verify the eligibility of its players before submitting rosters, including investigating “any perceived deviation in secondary sex characteristics” and maintaining documentation of its findings. The IOC’s policy, meanwhile, dictates that athletes competing in female categories undergo a one-time genetic screening. Powar said such a ban at FIFA would impact women with medical conditions known as differences in sex development, or DSDs, which can manifest as testosterone levels outside the typical female range and having male chromosomes. Jon Holmes, spokesperson for the advocacy group Football v Homophobia similarly warned that women with DSDs would “bear the brunt of this.” He suggested that the administration’s efforts are largely performative — noting that “there’s no suggestion anyone is near international level,” referring to transgender female soccer players. Payoshni Mitra, an advocate for abolishing sex testing in women’s sports, however, said in an interview Friday that it was too early to speculate about a policy that doesn’t exist, but noted that she “will be very, very surprised if suddenly they come up with a very exclusionary policy.” Mitra said she’d hope that FIFA acts “in a way that is based on science,” adding: “If they come up with a policy, the policy will be based on science, evidence-based science, and also should take into account athlete well-being and the other conditions that concern these policies.” FIFA has yet to formally announce the location of the 2031 tournament, for which the U.S., Mexico, Costa Rica and Jamaica have submitted the sole joint bid. Giuliani said Thursday that the organization had already told President Donald Trump that the U.S. would host the contest. Powar pleaded with other sporting groups to consider the human price of hosting their tournaments in the U.S., despite the lucrative commercial appeal of the country. “We would urge all sports bodies to think of the credibility of their sport and the harmful impact of accepting all U.S. conditions of hosting — it may come at the cost of excluding participants,” Powar wrote. “And in football, a sport that has always been the most open and accessible, that could be devastating.” Lead Art: Andrew Giuliani, head of the White House FIFA World Cup task force, speaks at a news briefing about security June 4, 2026, in Miami. | Rebecca Blackwell/AP Jul 2026 As you wait for the opening whistle between Spain and Argentina, take a few minutes to understand the secret political history behind the fraught tournament just wrapping up, from Zurich to the Meadowlands. Sophia Cai’s POLITICO Magazine story “ How the World Cup Became the Trump Trophy ,” shows how the U.S. nearly destroyed FIFA and then made it stronger than ever, and how a tournament hatched as an exercise in North American cooperation became Trump’s plaything. You can read Sophia’s story here . POLITICO Staff 07/19/2026, 11:01am ET Share: Jul 2026 Spot the pol! Study the photograph carefully. Only the political figure is missing. Guess who it is. POLITICO 07/19/2026, 10:00am ET Share: This diplomatically-minded minister crosses his fingers before his country’s semifinal clash against Argentina. Rasid Necati Aslim/Anadolu via Getty Images That’s David Lammy, the U.K.’s deputy prime minister, making a good luck gesture as he arrives at Downing Street for a weekly Cabinet meeting in London hours before England’s semifinal collapse against Argentina on Wednesday. Lead Art: Natália Delgado, POLITICO Jul 2026 The World Cup conundrum of Europe’s far right The multicultural rosters of Europe’s top teams has thrown some of them for a loop. Emily Schultheis 07/19/2026, 9:40am ET Share: BERLIN — As the World Cup comes to a close, there’s one group of politicians who’ve remained unusually quiet about the fate of their own national teams: Europe’s far-right party leaders. Top officials from France’s National Rally, the Alternative for Germany, England’s Reform UK and others faced complicated dynamics in deciding how to talk about the World Cup. The broad, socially acceptable form of patriotism inspired by international sporting events like the World Cup seems at first glance like an easy fit for parties whose core message includes a return to strong national pride. But in many of the countries where these parties are growing, increasingly diverse teams with immigrant backgrounds are at odds with the way these parties think about national identity — making it tougher for them to vocally support the home team without implicitly supporting the individual players who are part of it. “For the right, for whom national identification and identity has always been more salient than for the center and the left, soccer fandom was a natural conduit to express its passion and commitment,” said Andrei S. Markovits, a professor at the University of Michigan who studies the intersection of sports and nationalism. “This has become a tad more difficult when the players hail from multicultural backgrounds, many of which the right sees as inferior.” (Former Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy learned the hard way how people react when someone points out those multicultural backgrounds: The center-right pol came under fire for saying ahead of Spain’s semifinal match against France that the French national team was “without Frenchmen,” a not-so-subtle dig at the African origins of many of the team’s star players.) “It would not be good in terms of their electoral strength for [far-right parties] to be critical of these teams,” said Alan Bairner, a professor at England’s Loughborough University who has researched sports and national identity. “But the fact that they might seem a bit lukewarm is in itself a telling thing.” That’s perhaps why criticism from far-right leaders has been directed not at their own teams, but at other teams — or at using the tournament to chime in with nationalist narratives that serve their own purposes. Geert Wilders, leader of the Netherlands’ far-right Freedom Party, posted an image of himself in a bright-orange suit to cheer on the Dutch team in the early stages of the World Cup. It was a sharp contrast with his comments a day earlier, when he’d reposted a picture of members of the Moroccan squad praying on the field with an anti-Islam insult as the caption. (Several players of Dutch-Moroccan origin opted to play for Morocco, rather than the Netherlands this year.) And after the Netherlands lost to Morocco in a penalty shootout late last month and post-game celebrations led to clashes with police in The Hague, Wilders — long a vocal supporter of stricter immigration controls in Europe — used the occasion to call for the deportation of all Moroccans involved in the clashes. Reform UK’s Nigel Farage, too, used England’s semifinal match against Argentina on Wednesday to hearken back to the two countries’ 1980s-era war over the Falkland Islands: “Let’s do it all over again just like 1982,” he posted on X . (Farage got in trouble earlier in the tournament for posting a photo of himself celebrating an England win by chugging a pint in a Three Lions jersey … only for observers to note it was a picture from the 2024 Euros.) But in most cases, far-right leaders have swallowed their criticism of their diverse national teams and offered the basic messages of support expected of them, or in some cases, just stayed quiet. National Rally leader Jordan Bardella, despite his past jabs at French striker Kylian Mbappé, congratulated the French team on a good run after losing to Spain earlier this week and said they “thrilled an entire nation” with their World Cup performance. And AfD leaders Alice Weidel and Tino Chrupalla sought to downplay criticism of the German team’s diversity from within their party: Asked about one AfD state-level politician’s assertion that Germany’s national squad “has lost the quality of an authentic German national team” due to its diverse roster, both Weidel and Chrupalla were dismissive of those comments. “If a player of an ethnic group whom you deem inferior scores goals for you, what are you going to do? Disavow him as belonging to the nation that you love?” asked Markovits. “No … you may deep down still doubt the genuine essence of his nationality, but you accept his goals and appropriate them as your own.” Lead Art: Geert Wilders speaks with the media in Brussels on June 18, 2026. | Marius Burgelman/AP Jul 2026 Democrats look to World Cup watch parties to register thousands of voters The party’s weekend campaign is a part of a broader initiative focused on young voters ahead of the midterms. Sophia Cai 07/19/2026, 9:25am ET Share: The Democratic National Committee is betting the world’s biggest sporting event can help build its voter base. The DNC is launching a nationwide voter registration effort for Sunday’s World Cup final, dispatching organizers, volunteers and campaign staff to FIFA Fan Zones, sports bars and community watch parties with the goal of registering more than 3,000 new Democratic voters. The effort underscores how both political parties are increasingly viewing major sporting events as opportunities to reach voters — particularly young Americans who may be less likely to attend traditional political events but are gathering in large numbers around the monthlong tournament. In the case of the World Cup final, more than 80,000 people are expected to attend in person. “From outside FIFA Fan Zones and at World Cup watch parties to bars, restaurants and parks, we’ll spend the weekend registering thousands of new Democrats and having conversations about how we win races up and down the ballot,” DNC Chair Ken Martin said in a statement. The weekend push spans nearly two dozen states, with Democratic organizers attending events in battlegrounds including Arizona, Pennsylvania and Florida. In Arizona, Democrats plan registration efforts in Phoenix, Chandler, Tempe, Tucson and Yuma. The campaign builds on the DNC’s broader “When We Count” initiative focused on young voters ahead of the 2026 midterms. Unlike traditional registration drives centered on college campuses, the program deliberately targets young Americans who are already in the workforce. About one-third of the program’s fellows are native Spanish speakers. The party is pairing the registration effort with a four-part national training series that it says will equip more than 1,500 organizers, campaign staff and volunteers with best practices for partisan voter registration. Professional sports leagues have increasingly embraced civic engagement around elections, and the NBA and WNBA are some of the most visible examples, using arenas as polling locations and partnering on nonpartisan voter registration drives. And conservatives have previously registered voters at NASCAR events. “The power in sport is that people gather. It creates a sense of belonging,” said Lee Igel, a professor of global sport at New York University. “If you want to get 3,000 people registered to vote at a watch party for a sports mega-event, you’d be hard-pressed not to get closer to 30,000 people” registered. Igel said the DNC’s initiative takes that relationship between sports and civic participation a step further. “There’s some precedent when it comes to voting and sports,” he said. “But this picks up on a more recent trend of politicians, elected officials and the organizations they’re connected to tapping into the power of sport.” He pointed to leaders across the political spectrum, including President Donald Trump and New York City Mayor Zohran Mamdani, as examples of politicians increasingly recognizing sports’ cultural reach. “Sport is fun and games,” Igel said, “but the attention it attracts in communities — from eyeballs to people in person — is enormous.” Lead Art: A fan arrives for Argentina's rally on the eve of the World Cup final soccer match in New York's Times Square on July 18, 2026. | Frank Franklin II/AP Jul 2026 Spain or Argentina, who’s going to win? Europe has its say. Guess who the Brussels bubble thinks will triumph in the FIFA World Cup final. Ali Walker 07/19/2026, 9:15am ET Share: Good morning and welcome to World Cup final day. POLITICO’s live blog will be humming from now through the final whistle in New Jersey this afternoon. Let’s start here ... POLITICO polled the great and the good of the Brussels bubble to hear which team they think will win the World Cup final on Sunday. And there’s not much love for Argentina. Glenn Micallef, European commissioner for sport: 2-0 Spain. Magnus Brunner, European commissioner for internal affairs and migration: “Both [teams] almost lost to Austria (just kidding), but the strong historical Austria-Spain connection compels me to say 2-1 for Spain. And because I hope an EU country wins!” Paula Pinho, European Commission chief spokesperson: “1-1 in regulation time, and Spain wins on penalties.” Jüri Laas, spokesperson for European Parliament President Roberta Metsola: “Hoping for positive and entertaining football. Probably a close game. Europe wins. Spain 2, Argentina 1.” Marcos Alonso Alonso, Spanish ambassador to the EU: “We’re sure that La Roja will bring joy to Europe.” Fernando Iglesias, Argentina’s ambassador to the EU: “May the final be the best, and may the best win the final (I mean: Messi).” Thomas Regnier, European Commission spokesperson and former professional footballer: “Spain wins 2-1. Messi scores his last World Cup goal from the spot.” Pieter Jan Kleiweg de Zwaan, Dutch ambassador to the EU: “It has to be Spain. 2-0. Argentina has been so lucky and it has to be a European country.” Roxana Mînzatu, executive vice president of the European Commission: “Looking forward to the Messi-Yamal duel and expecting an exciting match. Too close to call.” Christophe Hansen, European commissioner for agriculture: “Spain will be the first country in history to win the World Cup only conceding a single goal on the way. 2-0.” Ignazio Cocchiere, European Commission official and former professional footballer: “I say 2-1 Spain. The UEFA European champions against the Copa America and World Cup holders, you can’t ask for a better final. Spanish captain Rodri to be player of the match.” Edouard Philippe, former French PM, mayor of Le Havre and presidential candidate: “3-1 pour l’Espagne. ” Carrie Budoff Brown, POLITICO Europe’s executive editor: “3-2 to Argentina. Messi pulls it out.” Lead Art: JERSEY CITY, NEW JERSEY - JULY 15: The Final July 19 visual with the crests of Spain and Argentina is displayed against the Manhattan skyline during the FIFA Drone show in New York/New Jersey at Liberty State Park on July 15, 2026 in Jersey City, New Jersey. (Photo by David Ramos/Getty Images) | Getty Images Jul 2026 | EARLIER America First, Soccer Second Did MAGA ever really fall in love with the world’s game? Adam Wren 07/19/2026, 7:00am ET Lead Art: The World Cup made soccer look like a MAGA sport. Was it an illusion? | Illustration by Claudine Hellmuth/POLITICO (source images via Getty and iStock) Jun 2026 | EARLIER This World Leader Took on Trump Over Iran — and It’s Paying Off Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez may be embattled at home, but his opposition to the war in Iran has made him a “rockstar” who’s defying the odds. Aitor Hernández-Morales 06/08/2026, 12:01am ET Lead Art: Spain's Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez addresses journalists after a meeting with King Felipe VI of Spain in Palma de Mallorca in July 2025. | Jaime Reina/AFP via Getty Images About Us Advertising Breaking News Alerts Careers Credit Card Payments FAQ Feedback Headlines Photos Press Request A Correction Write For Us RSS Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information and Opt Out of Targeted Advertising © 2026 POLITICO LLC