Dems pick South Carolina to lead 2028 primary calendar - POLITICO Skip to Main Content Toggle menu More from Politico Europe Pro E&E News AgencyIQ Press Escape to close the menu. search for any story WASHINGTON & POLITICS WASHINGTON & POLITICS 6 items 1st item Congress 2nd item White House 3rd item Supreme Court and Legal Issues 4th item Magazine 5th item 2026 Elections 6th item Latest on POLITICO STATE POLITICS & POLICY STATE POLITICS & POLICY 4 items 1st item California 2nd item Florida 3rd item New Jersey 4th item New York GLOBAL POLITICS & POLICY GLOBAL POLITICS & POLICY 6 items 1st item Brussels 2nd item Canada 3rd item United Kingdom 4th item France 5th item Germany 6th item Australia POLICY NEWS POLICY NEWS 11 items 1st item Food and Agriculture 2nd item Cybersecurity 3rd item Defense 4th item Education 5th item Energy and Climate 6th item Tax, Finance and the Economy 7th item Health Care 8th item Labor 9th item Tech 10th item Trade 11th item Transportation NEWSLETTERS NEWSLETTERS 6 items 1st item Playbook 2nd item West Wing Playbook 3rd item Inside Congress 4th item POLITICO Forecast 5th item POLITICO Magazine 6th item All Newsletters COLUMNISTS COLUMNISTS 7 items 1st item Alex Burns 2nd item Victoria Guida 3rd item John Harris 4th item Debra Kahn 5th item Jonathan Martin 6th item Nahal Toosi 7th item All Columnists SERIES & MORE SERIES & MORE 7 items 1st item Inside Congress Live 2nd item Breaking News Alerts 3rd item Podcasts 4th item Video 5th item Matt Wuerker Cartoons 6th item Cartoon Carousel 7th item The POLITICO Poll POLITICO Live POLITICO Live 1 item 1st item Events Follow us X Instagram Facebook LinkedIn My Account Log In Dems pick South Carolina to lead 2028 primary calendar The state edged Nevada to be first, marking a major shift from past primary schedules Rep. James Clyburn (D-S.C.) with Rep. Ro Khanna (D-Calif.) and Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear, speaks to a crowd on May 29, 2026, in Columbia, South Carolina. | Sean Rayford/Getty Images By Emilio Perez Ibarguen , Aaron Pellish and Lisa Kashinsky 07/24/2026 01:26 PM EDT | Updated: 07/24/2026 05:39 PM EDT Share Copy link X Facebook Email Reddit WhatsApp LinkedIn Democrats voted to make South Carolina their first presidential primary state for 2028 — a significant shift from past election cycles, and one that prioritizes a state with a significant Black voting bloc. The Democratic National Committee’s Rules and Bylaws Committee on Friday scheduled the Palmetto State’s primary for Jan. 22 and tentatively set the rest of its early-voting calendar in a surprisingly tense voting session. It will be followed by Nevada, New Hampshire, New Mexico, Michigan and Virginia. The decision to choose South Carolina over Nevada, another historic early state in contention for first place, came down in part to concerns about Nevada’s ability to process election results quickly. Democrats said they were also looking to strengthen Black voting power in the South after the Supreme Court significantly restricted the Voting Rights Act earlier this year, which triggered redistricting efforts. Michigan bested Iowa in the vote to be the Midwest’s early state — a notable departure, as Iowa led the calendar for decades through 2020. New Hampshire, which has gone second on the nominating calendar in most past cycles, got bumped back to third place. Then, things got tense. The committee voted to add Virginia and New Mexico to host early-state primaries for the first time. But Democrats also proposed having New Mexico vote on Feb. 15, before Michigan, because Democrats there can’t move their primary unilaterally. That’s a major departure from a monthslong, widely agreed upon plan from the DNC members to give one of the first four early states to the South, Northeast, West and Midwest. The adopted calendar leaves the Midwest, a crucial region for Democrats’ path to victory in 2028, represented fifth, and sparked frustration from a number of Midwestern members of the DNC. “We had four regions for a reason, and we should be respecting that,” Rep. Debbie Dingell (D-Mich.) said during the meeting. “For too long, Democrats flew over the Midwest.” The proposed calendar will be voted on by the full DNC at its August meeting in Austin. The slate of early nominating states — and their specific order — will significantly shape the path to victory for the field of Democrats eyeing the 2028 presidential nomination. It elevates the South and Southwest, which boasts large populations of Black and Latino voters, and weakens the voices of Democrats from the Northeast and Midwest. And it happened partly by accident. Jane Kleeb, chair of the Nebraska Democratic Party, said the mid-September deadline to move a state’s primary date caught her and other members by surprise – and ultimately ended up costing Michigan an even more prominent placement. “The rule was passed last year. A lot of us, because we deal with a lot of things, just forgot about it,” Kleeb said. “We all thought we had until Jan. 15, which would have given more time to do it.” Dennis Speight, a DNC member from Texas who supported New Mexico getting moved into the early round of states, argued it would have gotten lost if it had been stuck between two larger states. “We wanted to do mostly smaller states first, and did not want New Mexico, which we spent a lot of time adding to the mix to get to that sixth state, to get lost in that shock,” Speight said after the vote. “If we had sandwiched New Mexico in between Michigan and Virginia, given their number of delegates, New Mexico might have gotten lost.” DNC chair Ken Martin, who previously led the Minnesota Democratic Party, said he believes Michigan will still play a big role in selecting the next nominee. “As a proud Midwesterner, I want to make sure that Michigan does not get overlooked,” Martin said after the meeting. “When you think of all the other states and the number of delegates that will come out of Michigan and Virginia compared to the other states, there’s no way they’re going to be overlooked in that process.” And Dingell said after the vote that Michigan’s role as the first large state on the calendar would prevent it from being overshadowed, adding that presidential candidates “are going to be there, they’re going to have to talk about the issues.” Watch: The Conversation The lesson Democrats could learn from MAGA Friday’s vote was the culmination of months of intense lobbying by some of the top politicians and operatives across the nation’s battlegrounds, a furious effort that played out in public letters and over private drinks and included handwritten notes from New Mexico Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham and literal sweeteners in swag bags of local goods. South Carolina and Nevada, which in recent years had been third and fourth in the process, emerged as frontrunners as Democrats who’ve long bemoaned the lack of diversity in Iowa and New Hampshire looked for ways to make increased overtures to Black and Latino voters. That desire only grew in the wake of the Supreme Court’s Callais ruling — and prompted Virginia to elevate a second southern state into the early window. Some Democrats additionally pointed to South Carolina’s role in propelling former President Joe Biden to the nomination in 2020. Biden won the state resoundingly, boosting his then-floundering campaign after underwhelming performances in Iowa and New Hampshire, before racking up huge victories across the Black-heavy South on Super Tuesday that launched him to victory. “They saved our entire country from Donald Trump,” said Kleeb. “They didn’t just do it in 2020. They’ve done it over and over and over again.” “Our party must acknowledge this now with actions,” she continued. A number of potential 2028ers have already visited South Carolina well in advance of the DNC’s meetings. Former Vice President Kamala Harris, Maryland Gov. Wes Moore, Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Sen. Ruben Gallego (D-Ariz.), and former ambassador Rahm Emanuel have all traveled to the state this year. California Gov. Gavin Newsom, Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear and Rep. Ro Khanna (D-Calif.) visited the state last summer. Nevada, a union-heavy battleground state with a diverse electorate and large Latino population, argued it was better positioned for the leadoff spot than reliably red South Carolina — a push backed by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and Xavier Becerra, who is running to be the first Latino governor of neighboring California. But some RBC members worried Nevada’s grace period for counting late-arriving mail ballots could delay results and inject chaos into the nominating process from the jump if it was the first state. New Hampshire and Iowa Democrats decried the proposed calendar, which overturns their premium positions from past cycles. [@portabletext/vue] Unknown block type "most-read", specify a component for it in the `components.types` prop “The Democratic National Committee’s decision today is wrong for Democrats, wrong for New Hampshire, and wrong for the country,” said New Hampshire Sens. Jeanne Shaheen and Maggie Hassan, and Reps. Chris Pappas and Maggie Goodlander in a statement. “This is just another example that National Democrats are truly out of touch with voters. Iowa is the center of the political universe right now,” Iowa Democratic Party chair Rita Hart said. The DNC unsuccessfully attempted to add Georgia to its early window in 2024. Peach State Democrats were candid that their ability to fill a top slot would hinge on whether they were able to flip the governor’s and secretary of state’s offices in November — a gamble RBC members seemed unwilling to make. North Carolina also faced logistical hurdles. Related Tags 2028 Elections South Carolina Democratic National Committee Loading POLITICO Forecast Global power is in flux. Your daily guide to what comes next. Email By signing up, you acknowledge and agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service . You may unsubscribe at any time by following the directions at the bottom of the email or by contacting us here . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign Up * All fields must be completed to subscribe About Us Advertising Breaking News Alerts Careers Credit Card Payments FAQ Feedback Headlines Photos Press Request A Correction Write For Us RSS Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information and Opt Out of Targeted Advertising © 2026 POLITICO LLC