Google is expanding its AI empire — and losing the people who built it Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu AI Effect AI at Work AI Insights AI Impact AI Events AI Age Google is expanding its AI empire — and losing the people who built it Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 2:06 AM EDT Updated 5 Hours Ago MacKenzie Sigalos @KENZIESIGALOS WATCH LIVE Key Points Google’s cloud boom is testing the company's commitment to frontier AI as commercial returns take priority. Jeff Dean’s departure and Demis Hassabis’ move away from daily management of DeepMind add to questions about Google’s ability to retain top talent and stay at the frontier. Google Cloud’s 82% growth in the second quarter strengthens the case for prioritizing infrastructure, efficient models and enterprise AI services. In this article GOOGL Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Demis Hassabis Jeff Chiu | AP Depending on where you sit, Google either has the most enviable position in artificial intelligence or is bleeding top talent to leading AI labs and other startups on the frontline of innovation. It's a contrast that's been on full display over the past two weeks, beginning with the company reporting 82% revenue growth in its cloud division, followed by a shakeup on Wednesday in Google's AI organization, as chief scientist Jeff Dean announced his departure after 27 years. For Google, home to the famous 2017 transformer paper that paved the way for the generative AI boom, the recent events underscore a central challenge facing the $4 trillion company: where to invest. Building frontier models requires huge upfront costs for compute and research with no guarantee of future returns, while the cloud business is proving to be highly efficient and is growing much faster than rival offerings at Amazon and Microsoft . Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai said on last month's earnings call that 90% of Fortune 100 companies are using Gemini Enterprise, underscoring the company's ability to sell AI services to cloud customers. Tomasz Tunguz, founder of Theory ventures, said it's becoming clear that top-of-the-line models aren't required when it comes to meeting most enterprise demand. "I think we are at that place with AI, particularly for a lot of white-collar work, where many of the models that are reasonable are good enough," Tunguz said. "The next evolution of models are likely to be helpful in domains where you have really fancy computers." Google's full-stack approach to AI is a big reason the stock is up 16% this year after jumping 65% in 2025, when it outpaced all of its megacap peers. It's been a bumpier road of late. Alphabet shares fell after the latest earnings report due to concerns about capital expenditures, and dipped further on Wednesday following the announcement that Dean is departing and Demis Hassabis is stepping down as CEO of Google DeepMind to become chairman of the unit. watch now VIDEO 2:25 02:25 Alphabet shares fall after major shakeup at Google’s AI unit Power Lunch While the tone on Wall Street has been generally favorable, not everyone is celebrating inside of Google. Some researchers have grown frustrated over access to the computing capacity they need to pursue ambitious projects while watching Google Cloud sell TPUs to outside customers, including Anthropic, according to people familiar with the matter who asked not to be named due to confidentiality. Tensor processing units, or TPUs, are the the company's homegrown AI chips that compete with Nvidia's graphics processing units. Google's bureaucracy is a common source of frustration, with layers of approval required to move research into products. That can make emerging companies like OpenAI, Anthropic or even younger startups more appealing, especially for AI researchers and developers who prefer lab work to balance sheets. Dean is leaving along with Google stars Sanjay Ghemawat, Oriol Vinyals, and Quoc Le to start Discovery Loop. On X, Dean said the startup, backed by Google, will be a public benefit corporation "whose mission is to automate machine learning, science, and engineering to accelerate discoveries and progress." Their exit follows the departures of other prominent researchers, including Noam Shazeer, one of the authors of the landmark 2017 paper "Attention Is All You Need," which provided the foundation for generative AI. All eight authors have now left Google. Shazeer left for OpenAI in June, less than two years after Google paid nearly $3 billion to bring him back through an acquihire. His exit came shortly before Nobel laureate John Jumper left DeepMind for Anthropic. 'Part of history' Gil Luria, an analyst at D.A. Davidson, said there's a clear trend when looking at the exodus of top talent. "They're not interested in commercializing AI," said Luria, who recommends holding Alphabet stock. "They're interested in being part of history, and so they look at Anthropic, OpenAI or another startup as being the place where they can pursue history." At Google, Dean was one of the very few high-profile voices willing to criticize the Trump administration, and earlier this year he was vocal in opposing the Pentagon's decision to designate Anthropic as a supply-chain risk, warning that the move could damage the broader U.S. AI industry. More importantly, from a technical perspective, he helped build the computing infrastructure and neural network systems that established the company as an early leader in modern AI. Hassabis, who co-founded DeepMind in 2010 and sold it to Google four years later, is becoming chairman of the division and will assume the newly created role of chief scientist at Alphabet, focusing on longer-term research and the societal implications of artificial general intelligence, or AGI. He also plans to devote more time to Isomorphic Labs, the AI drug-discovery company that grew out of DeepMind. Koray Kavukcuoglu, DeepMind's technology chief and Alphabet's chief AI architect, will take over daily management of the division and development of the next Gemini model. According to a person close to the DeepMind team, Kavukcuoglu had been taking on a broader set of responsibilities from Hassabis over the past year, including directing model development and presenting major Gemini releases. Hassabis, meanwhile, has been spending more time away from the lab, focusing on regulation and the longer-term implications of advanced AI. watch now VIDEO 5:31 05:31 Google's chief AI architect lays out its AI strategy Power Lunch One of the biggest points of friction inside Google is compute. Google is investing more than almost any company in the world in data centers, chips and related infrastructure. But capacity remains scarce. Every TPU assigned to training a model, serving a Google product, or fulfilling a contract with a cloud customer reflects a choice among competing priorities. Frustrations over access to compute can be especially acute when Google announces large infrastructure commitments to competing labs like Anthropic, whose models compete directly with Gemini, sources with knowledge of the matter said. One of the people said Google has projections for demand in different areas, including research and model training, serving products such as search and Gemini, and working with cloud customers. Those requirements are modeled years in advance, the person said, though capacity may shift over shorter periods if a product grows faster than expected or if priorities change. Pichai has said on the past two earnings calls that Google continues to prioritize DeepMind's compute needs even as demand from cloud customers grows. Asked in July about TPU allocation, he said Google's "first priority" is securing the compute needed to compete at the frontier in AGI development, calling that work "the foundation for everything we do." Pichai went on to say that Google balances that need against the capacity required to run its consumer products and AI models, while increasingly placing TPUs directly in third-party data centers to help satisfy external demand. Dan Niles, founder of Niles Investment Management and a Google shareholder, said access to compute is a natural source of tension. "Google has all of these other businesses, and they've got to figure out who they're going to give some of these resources to," Niles said. "Somebody's always going to be unhappy in that situation." Bringing DeepMind closer to Cloud In January, at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Hassabis and Kurian appeared onstage together to discuss enterprise products and use cases. It was a striking sight considering how separately the two organizations have historically operated and how far removed Hassabis was from much of the company, according to a person familiar with Google Cloud's operations who asked not to be named in order to speak candidly on the matter. The person viewed the joint appearance as a sign that Hassabis was becoming more engaged with enterprise use cases of Google's AI, particularly in areas such as coding and customer service, and reflected a broader effort to bring the company's research and commercial operations closer together as it competes with OpenAI and Anthropic. In the months that followed, Google ran into a number of snags with its models, most notably delaying the launch of its newest flagship model, Gemini 3.5 Pro. At the same time, Kurian's business has seen its most explosive growth on record. Google Cloud CEO Thomas Kurian speaks at the Google Cloud Next event in San Francisco, April 9, 2019. Michael Short | Bloomberg | Getty Images Kurian, a former top Oracle executive, has led Google Cloud since 2019, building a bustling enterprise sales organization at a company known for its dominance in consumer internet. Google Cloud designs its own AI chips, operates a global data center network, and sells models, databases, security software, and tools for building AI agents. The strategy gives Google multiple ways to profit from AI demand. It can sell infrastructure to OpenAI, Anthropic, and other labs, while offering Gemini to enterprises and integrating AI across Search, YouTube, Workspace and its other products. The emerging question, almost four years into the generative AI craze, is whether Google needs to develop the best AI models or if it's better off letting other companies foot the bill. Kavukcuoglu told CNBC at the company's developer conference in May that Google aims to push the frontier while also improving efficiency. He said the company's Flash model delivers frontier-level capabilities while running four times faster and more efficiently than comparable models, allowing Google to extend advanced AI across enterprise and consumer services. Like Tunguz, Niles said the most powerful model is unnecessary for many commercial applications. "The models are good enough for 90% of what needs to get done," he said. "You don't need a Ferrari for this stuff. A Ford will work for 90% of the use cases." But for the scientists and researchers trying to produce the next transformer-scale breakthrough, being good enough isn't always good enough. WATCH: Demis Hassabis on agentic AI deployment watch now VIDEO 1:42 01:42 Agentic AI deployment and research constrained by chip shortage: Google DeepMind Squawk Box Asia Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. More In AI Age Grindr's AI spend is paying off and its pricey new tier has had some surprises, CEO says Brandon Gomez 2 hours ago 'AI Kill Switch' bill needs to be passed this year amid ongoing rogue agent hacks, Rep. Lieu says CJ Haddad Hadrian valued at nearly $8 billion after fresh funding as money pours into defense tech Samantha Subin Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by