VW top investor calls for faster overhaul to fend off Chinese rivals Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Autos Volkswagen controlling families call for faster overhaul to fend off Chinese rivals Published Fri, Aug 7 2026 4:00 AM EDT Updated Fri, Aug 7 2026 8:15 AM EDT Sam Meredith @in/samuelmeredith @smeredith19 WATCH LIVE Key Points Volkswagen's top investor on Friday called on the auto giant to take immediate action to fend off intensifying competition from Chinese car brands. "The decisions that Volkswagen makes now will determine its future," said Hans Dieter Pötsch, chairman of the board of management of Porsche SE. Volkswagen has confirmed that it is looking to cut up to 100,000 jobs as it seeks to counter a profit slump. In this article VOW3-DE P911-DE Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Clouds gather over the Zwickau Volkswagen Plant on July 9, 2026 at the Zwickau, eastern Germany. Volkswagen workers staged protests nationwide on July 9 as unions warned of "major conflict" if the struggling German car giant pushes ahead with what could be the global auto industry's biggest restructuring. - | Afp | Getty Images Volkswagen 's top investor and controlling family shareholders on Friday issued their clearest message yet to management as the German auto giant weighs the prospect of what could be the most radical overhaul in the firm's 89-year history. Europe's biggest carmaker has confirmed that it is looking to cut up to 100,000 jobs, twice as many as previously stated, as it seeks to counter a profit slump amid billions of euros in tariff costs and intensifying competition from Chinese car brands. "The Volkswagen Group is at a historic crossroads," Hans Dieter Pötsch, chairman of the board of management of Porsche SE, said in a statement. "The decisions that Volkswagen makes now will determine its future. For the sake of the company and its sustainable competitiveness, everyone must now step up and take responsibility." Pötsch warned that the longer decisions are delayed, the bigger the firm's problems will become. "The focus must now be solely on what is necessary from a business and economic perspective. All other considerations must be secondary," he added. Johannes Lattwein, member of the board of management responsible for finance and IT at Porsche SE, said it is "imperative" for Volkswagen to reduce excess capacity, significantly lower costs and strengthen the group's decision-making and execution capabilities. "As the majority holder of Volkswagen AG's ordinary shares, Porsche SE therefore supports the group board of management and its proposals. Competitiveness is the goal," Lattwein said. "Competitiveness is the goal. Every option must be considered in pursuing it. Otherwise, Volkswagen risks permanently losing ground to its international competitors," he added. The Porsche and Piëch families control Volkswagen through their holding company, Porsche SE, which is the single largest shareholder of Volkswagen. It owns 31.9% of Volkswagen's equity and 53.3% of its voting rights. The statements come as Porsche SE reported adjusted half-year earnings after tax of 949 million euros ($1.1 billion), reflecting a 14.5% drop compared to the same period a year ago. Read more Volkswagen CFO addresses plant closures, job losses as profits sink Volkswagen to slash model lineup and shrink capacity — but no word on job cuts Volkswagen plans to cut 15% of its workforce and close four German plants, report says A spokesperson at Volkswagen told CNBC that the statements from Porsche SE confirm the auto giant's position "on all aspects of the presented future plan and the urgency of its implementation." On a call after the company reported half-year results, Volkswagen CEO Oliver Blume said the company already has a clear strategy, a concrete plan and strong teams. "What we do not have is time. That is why we have already started work in many areas and are implementing measures from our future plan," Blume said on July 24. "I can assure you that we have one unequivocal objective: We want to secure the long-term competitiveness and future of our unique Group," he added. Shares of Volkswagen were little changed on Friday. The stock is down around 27% year-to-date. 'Various options' Speaking to CNBC's Annette Weisbach late last month, Volkswagen Chief Financial Officer Arno Antlitz said the auto industry has faced several challenges over the last 12 months, citing the heavy burden of tariff costs and the growing number of car exports from Beijing to Europe, among other examples. Antlitz also addressed whether the company may look to outsource plant capacity to the defense industry to stave off possible plant closures. watch now VIDEO 10:18 10:18 'Too many layers, too many entities' at Volkswagen, says CFO Squawk Box Europe "There are various options. And look, I'm not looking for job cuts per se and I'm not looking for plant closures per se," Antlitz said on July 24. He continued: "We want to reduce our cost structure and we want to increase productivity and increase the capacity utilization of our plants. And if there are better options then we will obviously look into that." Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by