Trump administration offers $25 million reward for California-born leader of Mexico's most powerful cartel - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Michigan Senate Primary World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War Michigan Senate Primary World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Crime Trump administration offers $25 million reward for California-born leader of Mexico's most powerful cartel August 5, 2026 / 2:04 PM EDT / CBS/AP Add CBS News on Google The State Department on Wednesday offered a $25 million reward for information leading to the capture of Juan Carlos González, or "Pelón," scaling up pressure on a U.S. citizen who has emerged as the figurehead of Mexico's most powerful cartel. The reward was bumped up from $5 million. The Trump administration offered a total of $102 million in rewards for various leaders of the Jalisco New Generation Cartel, or CJNG, and restricted the visas of family members and business associates of cartel members. The State Department said it was aimed at "crippling the organization's leadership" while President Trump has ramped up pressure on Mexico and other Latin American nations to carry out his security agenda. CJNG is among eight Mexican cartels designated as foreign terrorist organizations. The group was dealt a blow in February when leader Nemesio Rubén Oseguera Cervantes , or "El Mencho," was killed by the Mexican military. The U.S. provided intelligence for the operation, which resulted in a burst in violence in the state of Jalisco. González, Oseguera Cervantes' stepson and a dual Mexican and U.S. citizen, is reported to have taken control of the cartel, which is involved in everything from avocado production to drug smuggling. According to the State Department, González was born in Santa Ana, California, on Sept. 12, 1984. Juan Carlos González, alias "Pelón" U.S. State Department The reward offers also include up to $15 million for Audias Flores Silva, a.k.a. "El Jardinero" ("The Gardener"); up to $15 million each for Gonzalo Mendoza Gaytán, a.k.a. "Sapo," and Oseguera Cervantes' son-in-law, Julio Alberto Castillo Rodríguez, a.k.a. "Chorro"; up to $10 million each for Ricardo Ruiz Velasco, a.k.a. "Tripa," Julio César Montero Pinzón, a.k.a. "El Tarjetas," and Carlos Andrés Rivera Varela, a.k.a. "La Firma"; and up to $2 million for Griselda Margarita Arredondo Pinzón. Wednesday's move comes a few weeks after the Trump administration slapped sanctions on 50 people and companies linked with the cartel, including González. The sanctions froze assets and blocked U.S. financial transactions with those cited. The cartel is considered the largest in Mexico, with a presence in 21 of its 32 states. Its operations have extended to several countries, including the U.S. "The United States is hunting down, dismantling, and destroying Cártel de Jalisco Nueva Generación," Secretary of State Marco Rubio said in a statement Wednesday. The Trump administration has ramped up pressure on the government of Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum to crack down more heavily on cartels, even threatening military action against the groups. In June, the U.S. Treasury announced a new bank alert targeting the cartel. Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control imposed sanctions on two men and nine companies involved in transportation, financial services and real estate, accused of being tied to a cartel-linked fuel theft ring intended to evade Mexican taxes while generating tens of millions of dollars annually for the cartel. Agence France-Presse contributed to this report. More from CBS News White House declassifies info on secret FBI probe into Trump's firing of Comey Sen. Mark Kelly: Trump "has to try to figure out a way out of" Iran war Democratic Rep. Gluesenkamp Perez and Trump-backed Republican advance in Washington primary Trump raises concerns in call with Rep. Max Miller amid abuse allegations Go deeper with The Free Press Trump Antifa Crackdown Steered to Agency That Targets Organized Crime Trump’s Pro-Union Agenda Is Over. Its Former Leader Is Still in the Game. In: Drug Cartels Trump Administration Jalisco © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report. Details: Mexico's Jalisco New Generation Cartel Explainer: Mexico's Jalisco New Generation Cartel 02:06 Explainer: Mexico's Jalisco New Generation Cartel (02:06) White House declassifies info on secret FBI probe into Trump's firing of Comey Sen. Mark Kelly: Trump "has to try to figure out a way out of" Iran war Democratic Rep. Gluesenkamp Perez and Trump-backed Republican advance in Washington primary Trump Antifa Crackdown Steered to Agency That Targets Organized Crime Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue