Pakistan precinct suspends all 78 officers and staff over alleged rape at police station | Pakistan | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development A street in Lahore, where the incident occured. Photograph: Rahat Dar/EPA View image in fullscreen A street in Lahore, where the incident occured. Photograph: Rahat Dar/EPA Rights and freedom Pakistan Pakistan precinct suspends all 78 officers and staff over alleged rape at police station Lahore police official says all personnel were responsible for preventing and reporting any wrongdoing at station Supported by About this content Haroon Janjua in Islamabad Wed 5 Aug 2026 11.23 EDT Last modified on Wed 5 Aug 2026 12.05 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google The alleged rape of a 20-year-old woman with learning disabilities in a police station in Lahore, Pakistan , has prompted authorities to suspend all 78 police officers and staff at the precinct, in one of the country’s biggest ever disciplinary actions against its police force. The woman alleges that an assistant sub-inspector apprehended her, took her to Ghaziabad police station and raped her in a room on the second floor. The woman’s family said she disappeared on the street, before returning home in tears and stating that she had been sexually assaulted at the station. The accused officer has been arrested and is now facing a criminal investigation for rape. All 78 police officials and staff members of Lahore’s Ghaziabad police station were suspended on Tuesday. Lahore’s deputy inspector general of police (operations), Faisal Kamran, told the Guardian that the officers were suspended because, under police rules, all personnel were responsible for preventing and reporting any wrongdoing within the station and they had failed to do so. “No officer questioned why the assistant sub-inspector had brought the woman to the station without any female police personnel present,” Kamran said. “I suspended all 78 police officials, and the gender crime wing is investigating the case, and we will dismiss the culprits, and we will ensure the safety of all police stations in the city,” he added. The case has sparked outrage in Pakistan, where rights groups have long claimed many women are reluctant to report sexual violence because of stigma and a lack of confidence in law enforcement. Allegations of misconduct by police officers have further eroded public trust, activists say. “This is an extremely disturbing incident and reflects the longstanding lack of accountability within the police,” said Farzana Bari, a women’s rights activist. “It is a stark example of the abuse of power. Allegations of police misconduct and custodial rape are not new, and we have seen such cases over the years. “We campaigned relentlessly in the 1990s for women’s police stations because survivors often did not feel safe reporting abuse to male officers. While the police’s record on protecting women remains poor, the fact that this case has been reported offers some hope that justice will be served.” Convictions for rape remain rare despite legal reforms in recent years. The Sustainable Social Development Organisation said the national conviction rate was about 0.5% in 2024, while official data showed the rate in Punjab, where the incident occurred, was 4% in 2025. Rights groups attribute the low rates to weak investigations, poor evidence collection, delays in prosecutions and the stigma surrounding sexual violence. According to police data , there were more than 20,000 crimes against women in Punjab province in the first half of 2026, up from the same period in 2025. “Unless state institutions are held accountable, such crimes will continue. What is needed is structural reform and stronger oversight to ensure justice for ordinary people,” Bari said. Explore more on these topics Pakistan Rights and freedom South and central Asia Women's rights and gender equality news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)