Mexican influencer shot dead during livestream - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat World Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East Mexican influencer shot dead during livestream Image source, Instagram/César Gastélum Image caption, César Gastélum had more than 500,000 followers on TikTok By Vanessa Buschschlüter Latin America online editor Published 5 August 2026 A Mexican influencer, César Gastélum, has been shot dead while livestreaming on social media. Gastélum was filming with two friends outside a fast food restaurant in Tres Ríos, in the northern city of Culiacán, on Tuesday evening when when two men on a motorbike drove up to him and one shot him at close range. He had more than half a million followers on TikTok and mainly uploaded comedy videos. It is not the first time a social media influencer has been killed in Mexico. Last year, 23-year-old Valeria Márquez was shot dead at a beauty salon while she was livestreaming on TikTok. On the livestream, Gastélum and his friends were wearing bright orange coats and bags typically used by delivery drivers. Local media reported that their outfits originally led police to believe that the victim was a delivery driver, but officials were later alerted to his identity. Police and forensic experts cordoned off the area and are examining the cartridge casings and CCTV footage for any clues. No arrests have so far been made and the two people on the motorbike fled the scene. It is not yet clear whether Gastélum had received any threats. On his Instagram account he often shared pictures of his travels and nights out, or posing in front of luxury cars. In one of his posts, he could be seen at the grave of Leobardo Aispuro, an influencer known as "El Gordo Peruci". Aispuro was shot dead in December 2024, in a killing which police said may have been linked to the rivalry between two warring factions of the Sinaloa cartel. Violence in the state of Sinaloa, of which Culiacán is the capital, has spiralled since the two factions - Los Chapitos and La Mayiza - fell out in September 2024. Correction 05 August: This article has been amended to make clear that César Gastélum was livestreaming on an unspecified social media platform when he was shot, and not TikTok as originally reported. Related topics Mexico More on this story Valeria Márquez: Who was Mexican influencer killed live on TikTok? Published 16 May 2025 'Fear is everywhere': BBC reports from Mexican city turned into war zone by drug cartel feud Published 25 February The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:28 BBC sees Israeli military presence in southern Lebanon. 00:01:28, play video BBC sees Israeli military presence in southern Lebanon 1:01 Ariana Grande thanks fans at final London show. 00:01:01, play video Ariana Grande thanks fans at final London show 1:29 What to do if you've been scammed. 00:01:29, play video What to do if you've been scammed 1:28 Masseuse says men treat her 'like a sex worker' 00:01:28, play video Masseuse says men treat her 'like a sex worker' 0:37 Sticky halloumi couscous bowl. 00:00:37, play video Sticky halloumi couscous bowl 0:57 Met Office: Summer 2026 was UK's hottest ever. 00:00:57, play video Met Office: Summer 2026 was UK's hottest ever 0:55 D4vd's celebrity lawyers withdraw from murder case. 00:00:55, play video D4vd's celebrity lawyers withdraw from murder case 0:57 Why has Keir Starmer quit as an MP? 00:00:57, play video Why has Keir Starmer quit as an MP? 1:05 Why Shein shares fell during its stock exchange debut. 00:01:05, play video Why Shein shares fell during its stock exchange debut 0:23 Moment Duane 'Keffe D' Davis found guilty of Tupac murder. 00:00:23, play video Moment Duane 'Keffe D' Davis found guilty of Tupac murder 0:54 Inside court for Tupac's murder trial verdict. 00:00:54, play video Inside court for Tupac's murder trial verdict 1:28 Millions of deportees forced to start over under Taliban. 00:01:28, play video Millions of deportees forced to start over under Taliban 1:10 'I'm on a mission to get people to work less' 00:01:10, play video 'I'm on a mission to get people to work less' 1:05 'I didn't give him up for adoption - he was taken' 00:01:05, play video 'I didn't give him up for adoption - he was taken' 1:06 Orangutans in danger as wildfires blaze Borneo. 00:01:06, play video Orangutans in danger as wildfires blaze Borneo 1:25 Why is it so hard to change someone's mind? 00:01:25, play video Why is it so hard to change someone's mind? 0:55 Amelia Dimoldenberg: 'We need to be opening doors for young people' 00:00:55, play video Amelia Dimoldenberg: 'We need to be opening doors for young people' 1:15 US and Iran trade strikes for first time in weeks. 00:01:15, play video US and Iran trade strikes for first time in weeks Top stories Iran attacks US bases in Middle East after reports US strike killed five at wedding party Published 2 minutes ago Charlie Kirk murder suspect pleads not guilty as judge clears way for death penalty trial Published 4 hours ago Live . Burnham to face first PMQs as adviser warns debt costs will force government to 'get real' 4127 viewing 4.1k viewing More to explore Chris Mason: Will Burnham find PMQs as 'nail biting' and 'nerve wracking' as Blair did? Israel expanding presence in Lebanon, officials say, as BBC visits occupied areas In the studio with Kasabian: 'We never thought we'd see success again' Soft launches and late sittings - six ways to get cheaper meals out Cup noodles made with cold water? BBC tries Japan's viral snack. Video Cup noodles made with cold water? BBC tries Japan's viral snack Will self-flying planes transform the skies? The Papers: 'Brexit and Thatcher to blame' and 'Hottest summer ever' Feeling nostalgic for summer? How to beat the back-to-work blues US Politics Unspun: Cut through the noise with Anthony Zurcher's newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Your first look at the new series of the Belfast-based police drama An enchanting concert of Alan Menken's greatest Disney hits Explore Kenya's spectacular birds of prey with Hamza How is real-world inequality coded into AI tools? Most read 1 Charlie Kirk murder suspect pleads not guilty as judge clears way for death penalty trial 2 'Brexit and Thatcher to blame' and 'Hottest summer ever' 3 US aircraft carrier docks near Thai beach resort Pattaya after record 250 days at sea 4 Ariana Grande completes tour and steps back from public life 5 Iran attacks US bases in Middle East after reports US strike killed five at wedding party 6 Fake 10 Downing Street listing exposes 'unfit' Booking.com, says consumer group 7 Chris Mason: Will Burnham find PMQs as 'nail biting' and 'nerve wracking' as Blair did? 8 Apple Maps renames Lake Ontario as Lake America after Trump order 9 Zelensky says airlines should avoid Russian airspace as Ukraine escalates drone operations 10 Children as young as six going to A&E in mental health crisis BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.