Trump vows accountability for those who pursued him in court cases Accessibility links Skip to main content Skip to main Navigation Skip to Search Next Close Previous Next This image contains sensitive content which some people may find offensive or disturbing. Click to reveal Print Options: Images Multimedia Embedded Content Comments Cancel Print Link has been copied to clipboard Home United States U.S. News All About America World Africa The Americas East Asia Europe Middle East South & Central Asia Broadcast Programs VOA Languages Latest Global Coverage Follow Us Languages Search Search Previous Next Breaking News USA Trump vows accountability for those who pursued him in court cases By VOA News March 14, 2025 11:12 PM Trump vows accountability for those who pursued him in court cases Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share FILE - US President Donald Trump, February 2025. U.S. President Donald Trump promised to seek accountability for those who pursued legal cases against him when he was out of office, speaking Friday at the Justice Department. "Our predecessors turned this Department of Justice into the Department of Injustice. But I stand before you today to declare that those days are over, and they are never going to come back. They're never coming back," Trump said. During his years out of office, the department twice indicted Trump on charges that he illegally stored classified documents at his Florida estate and that he worked to overturn the results of the 2020 presidential election. Both cases were dismissed after Trump won election in November, with the department citing a long-standing policy of not prosecuting a sitting president. "Now, as the chief law enforcement officer in our country, I will insist upon and demand full and complete accountability for the wrongs and abuses that have occurred. The American people have given us a mandate, a mandate like few people thought possible," Trump said. Trump has fired prosecutors who investigated him during the Biden administration and scrutinized thousands of FBI agents who investigated some supporters of the president who stormed the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021. Representative Jamie Raskin, the senior Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee, called Trump’s speech a "staggering violation of [the] traditional boundary between independent criminal law enforcement and presidential political power." Speaking outside Justice shortly after Trump spoke, Raskin said, "No other president in American history has stood at the Department of Justice to proclaim an agenda of criminal prosecution and retaliation against his political foes." Trump has long been critical of both the department and the FBI. He has installed political allies into top leadership positions at both of those agencies. FBI Director Kash Patel and Attorney General Pam Bondi attended Friday’s talk. In introducing Trump, Bondi said, "We all work for the greatest president in the history of our country. ... He will never stop fighting for us, and we will never stop fighting for him and for our country." During his speech, Trump promised "historic reforms" at the agencies and said, "Under the Trump administration, the DOJ and the FBI will once again become the premier crime fighting agencies on the face of the Earth." His speech had echos of his campaign rallies, with music blaring from speakers before Trump entered the department’s Great Hall and his address hitting on some of the main themes from his campaign, including border security and fighting violent crime. On crime, Trump said that homicides, property crime and robberies rose during the Biden administration. "I have no higher mission as president of the United States than to end this killing and stop this law breaking and to making America safe again. And that's what you're all about in this room. We want to protect Americans, and we protect everybody that's in our country," he said. Trump vows accountability for those who pursued him in court cases Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share Follow us Facebook X (Twitter) Youtube Instagram Follow us Print VOA News The Voice of America provides news and information in more than 40 languages to an estimated weekly audience of over 326 million people. Stories with the VOA News byline are the work of multiple VOA journalists and may contain information from wire service reports. Related Senate averts government shutdown, overcomes Democratic opposition US to expel South Africa ambassador as relations deteriorate 2 judges rule mass firings of agency employees to be illegal US envoy says Hamas misrepresented release of hostage ​ Follow Us United States US News All About America World Africa The Americas East Asia Pacific Europe Middle East South & Central Asia Sections VOA Programs Special projects Day in Photos VOA News on Iran VOA News on China 52 Documentary Videos More From VOA VOAAfrica.com Programs VOA Learning English Editorials About this site Terms of Use & Privacy Notice About VOA Get VOA+ VOA Around the World Contact VOA Media Relations Usage Requests VOA Pronunciation Guide XS SM MD LG