Trump blasts appeals court for halting White House ballroom construction, claiming decision is a ‘national security threat’ – as it happened | Republicans | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 3 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to key events Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness US politics live with Shrai Popat Republicans Trump blasts appeals court for halting White House ballroom construction, claiming decision is a ‘national security threat’ – as it happened This live blog is now closed. Appeals court halts construction of Trump’s $400m White House ballroom Sign up for the Breaking News US email Updated 8h ago Coral Murphy Marcos , Shrai Popat , Lucy Campbell and Tom Ambrose Fri 7 Aug 2026 22.01 EDT First published on Fri 7 Aug 2026 05.57 EDT Share Key events 8h ago Closing summary 10h ago Trump calls appeals court's decision to halt ballroom construction 'National Security Threat at the highest level' 11h ago Prosecutor fired over blogposts critical of Trump sues US justice department 11h ago Oregon governor supports locally-set moratoriums on data center development 15h ago Here's a recap of the day so far 16h ago Trump vows to 'immediately' appeal court's decision to block ballroom construction to supreme court 17h ago Trump moving forward with attempt to fire Lisa Cook after supreme court ruling - report 17h ago US judge allows deportation protections to end for South Sudanese nationals 18h ago Appeals court halts construction of Trump’s $400m White House ballroom 19h ago Cassidy says he will vote to confirm Todd Blanche as attorney general: 'I will be criticized for this vote' 20h ago Max Miller lends re-election campaign $1m despite growing calls to resign amid domestic abuse allegations - report 21h ago Blanche can’t afford to lose Bill Cassidy’s vote in quest for confirmation 21h ago US employers lost 23,000 jobs in July amid ongoing job growth slump 22h ago Justin Pearson and Brent Taylor win primaries for key Tennessee House seat 23h ago Another Republican comes out against Blanche's confirmation 23h ago Trump signs new orders targeting birthright citizenship 24h ago Trump refuses to say whether Max Miller should step aside by tomorrow Donald Trump gestures at the site of ongoing construction of the planned White House ballroom in May 2026. Photograph: Kevin Lamarque/Reuters View image in fullscreen Donald Trump gestures at the site of ongoing construction of the planned White House ballroom in May 2026. Photograph: Kevin Lamarque/Reuters Coral Murphy Marcos , Shrai Popat , Lucy Campbell and Tom Ambrose Fri 7 Aug 2026 22.01 EDT First published on Fri 7 Aug 2026 05.57 EDT Share From 10h ago 19.39 EDT Trump calls appeals court's decision to halt ballroom construction 'National Security Threat at the highest level' Donald Trump called the decision to halt construction of his $400m White House ballroom a “National Security Threat at the highest level” in a post on Truth Social. “We are not tenants, who pay rent and do all other things that a tenant must do, we are PRESIDENTS, elected by the people of the United States of America, and have many rights, including the right to fix, renovate, secure, protect, and beautify the White House grounds,” Trump wrote. “This decision, made after much of the work has been done and paid for, is a National Security Threat at the highest level.” Earlier today, a US federal appeals court sided with historic preservationists who sued to stop construction of the 90,000-square-foot (8,400-square-meter) ballroom, which he has repeatedly labeled as “a gift” to the US people. The order upheld a preliminary injunction won by the National Trust for Historic ⁠Preservation. The group sued last year after the Trump administration tore down the historic East Wing and began building a ballroom without seeking authorization from Congress. The appeals court put ⁠its ruling on hold for two weeks to allow the administration to appeal to the ​US supreme court. District court judge Richard Leon had said in a March opinion that any construction work left incomplete, although it poses concerns regarding the “safety and security of the White House grounds and the President himself, the existence of a ‘large hole’ beside the White House is, of course, a problem of the President’s own making.” Share Key events 8h ago Closing summary 10h ago Trump calls appeals court's decision to halt ballroom construction 'National Security Threat at the highest level' 11h ago Prosecutor fired over blogposts critical of Trump sues US justice department 11h ago Oregon governor supports locally-set moratoriums on data center development 15h ago Here's a recap of the day so far 16h ago Trump vows to 'immediately' appeal court's decision to block ballroom construction to supreme court 17h ago Trump moving forward with attempt to fire Lisa Cook after supreme court ruling - report 17h ago US judge allows deportation protections to end for South Sudanese nationals 18h ago Appeals court halts construction of Trump’s $400m White House ballroom 19h ago Cassidy says he will vote to confirm Todd Blanche as attorney general: 'I will be criticized for this vote' 20h ago Max Miller lends re-election campaign $1m despite growing calls to resign amid domestic abuse allegations - report 21h ago Blanche can’t afford to lose Bill Cassidy’s vote in quest for confirmation 21h ago US employers lost 23,000 jobs in July amid ongoing job growth slump 22h ago Justin Pearson and Brent Taylor win primaries for key Tennessee House seat 23h ago Another Republican comes out against Blanche's confirmation 23h ago Trump signs new orders targeting birthright citizenship 24h ago Trump refuses to say whether Max Miller should step aside by tomorrow 8h ago 22.01 EDT Closing summary This concludes our live coverage of the second Trump administration for the day. Here are the latest developments: A US federal appeals court has ordered the Trump administration to halt construction of the US president’s $400m White House ballroom , in a fresh blow to the controversial project. Donald Trump, who demolished the historic East Wing of the White House last year to make way for planned ballroom, has repeatedly touted it as “a gift” to the US people. More here . Donald Trump is attempting once again to oust the US Federal Reserve governor Lisa Cook over allegations of mortgage fraud, despite a recent US supreme court decision that upheld the central bank’s independence. Cook reportedly received a letter from the White House that provided notice that Trump was “considering removing” her from her Fed position over the same claims of mortgage fraud that he levied against her last summer. More here . Bill Cassidy, the US Republican senator seen as the decisive holdout on Todd Blanche’s nomination for attorney general, announced that he will support the pick , setting the stage for a major win for Trump. Confirmation that Cassidy, of Louisiana, is prepared to back Blanche – Trump’s former personal lawyer, and a loyal ally of the president – appeared to clear the last hurdle of his confirmation process, which had been challenged by the defections of the Republican senators Lisa Murkowski and Susan Collins. More here . Trump has made a second attempt to restrict the constitutional guarantee of birthright citizenship, just weeks after the US supreme court rejected his initial, more sweeping bid to deny automatic citizenship to the children born to undocumented immigrants and temporary foreign residents. Trump on Thursday signed two executive orders that seek to broaden the categories of children ineligible for automatic US citizenship and ban so-called “birth tourism”. More here . Trump has ordered a new 15% tariff on imported products made of polysilicon, an important ingredient in microchip manufacturing that is primarily produced by China . The new tariff, which will take effect on 4 December, is aimed at supporting US chip and solar panel supply chains to compete with Beijing on artificial intelligence and energy. More here . Share 8h ago 21.48 EDT In an interview with the Wall Street Journal, supreme court justice Samuel Alito confirmed that he will stay in his position “for another term,” rejecting any notion that he will retire soon. His comments are the first regarding his time left as supreme court justice after NPR’s veteran reporter Nina Totenberg earlier this summer mistakenly reported that Alito was retiring. “Obviously ⁠I’m here for another term,” Alito said in an interview published in the newspaper’s opinion section . The court’s annual term will begin in October. In reference to rumors of his retirement, Alito said that “it’s not pleasant, in the sense that it’s a reminder of mortality.” “It’s like, what are those vultures doing up there? They are flying around. But it goes with life tenure,” he said. Share 8h ago 21.25 EDT The Pentagon has revoked former Air Force secretary Frank Kendall’s eligibility for access to classified information, said Sean Parnell , the chief Pentagon spokesperson. “This action follows his unauthorized disclosure of classified information regarding Air Force One’s capabilities to a media outlet,” Parnell said in a post on X. The Pentagon also revoked “his ability to hold any sensitive position.” The move follows reporting from The New York Times of security concerns over the new, Qatari-gifted Air Force One, including the lack of infrared countermeasures to divert heat-seeking missiles and sensors to detect incoming launches. In the Times article, Kendall, a trained lawyer and engineer who served under President Joe Biden, is quoted as saying that the time for upgrades to the plane would not have been enough for “all the normal Air Force One modifications” and he was surprised that the plane was used outside the US. Share 9h ago 21.02 EDT The Trump administration is planning to give $1 billion in security assistance to the ⁠government of Colombia’s new ​right-wing President Abelardo De La ‌Espriella , per Reuters. “As a cornerstone of this renewed partnership, the United States, working with Congress, ‌intends to announce $1 billion in assistance ​as part of a security package to support ⁠President de la Espriella’s ​Administration in ​achieving ​our shared goals,” the ​state ‌department ​told the outlet in a statement. Share Updated at 21.02 EDT 9h ago 20.33 EDT The New Jersey Attorney General’s Office announced a civil rights investigation looking into the state’s largest immigration detention facility, according to a statement released on Friday. The probe comes days after Edwin Lopez-Cornejo, a Salvadorian immigrant being held at the Delaney Hall detention facility in Newark, died in ICE custody . “New Jersey has a legal and a moral duty to stand up for the civil rights of people in our State,” said attorney general Jennifer Davenport. “For detained individuals, including those held by a private corporation like GEO Group, those rights include the right to humane treatment and adequate medical care. We will take every action available under law to safeguard these core legal principles. We ask individuals to share their personal experiences with us so that we can take action to ensure that rights are protected.” Delaney Hall , an immigration detention facility operated by the private prison firm GEO Group, has faced intense scrutiny since reopening under the second Trump administration . It has since faced accusations of substandard medical care, inedible food and neglectful guards. In May, a group of detained men launched a hunger and labor strike , demanding a meeting with the New Jersey governor and improved living conditions, with dozens of women joining shortly after. Share 10h ago 19.39 EDT Trump calls appeals court's decision to halt ballroom construction 'National Security Threat at the highest level' Donald Trump called the decision to halt construction of his $400m White House ballroom a “National Security Threat at the highest level” in a post on Truth Social. “We are not tenants, who pay rent and do all other things that a tenant must do, we are PRESIDENTS, elected by the people of the United States of America, and have many rights, including the right to fix, renovate, secure, protect, and beautify the White House grounds,” Trump wrote. “This decision, made after much of the work has been done and paid for, is a National Security Threat at the highest level.” Earlier today, a US federal appeals court sided with historic preservationists who sued to stop construction of the 90,000-square-foot (8,400-square-meter) ballroom, which he has repeatedly labeled as “a gift” to the US people. The order upheld a preliminary injunction won by the National Trust for Historic ⁠Preservation. The group sued last year after the Trump administration tore down the historic East Wing and began building a ballroom without seeking authorization from Congress. The appeals court put ⁠its ruling on hold for two weeks to allow the administration to appeal to the ​US supreme court. District court judge Richard Leon had said in a March opinion that any construction work left incomplete, although it poses concerns regarding the “safety and security of the White House grounds and the President himself, the existence of a ‘large hole’ beside the White House is, of course, a problem of the President’s own making.” Share 11h ago 18.51 EDT Prosecutor fired over blogposts critical of Trump sues US justice department A federal prosecutor fired last year over critical comments he had written as a private citizen about Donald Trump sued the justice department, the AP reports, saying his termination violated his first amendment rights. Will Rosenzweig was two weeks away from trying a multimillion-dollar Medicare fraud case when a blog he had written years earlier covering a broad range of topics was publicized online by a conservative political commentator who also included a screenshot of Rosenzweig’s LinkedIn account and tagged senior justice department officials for their awareness. Less than three hours after the post, the lawsuit says, Rosenzweig received an email signed by then attorney general Pam Bondi informing him that he had been fired. The news came as Rosenzweig was out of town with his family observing the Jewish holiday of Rosh Hashana. View image in fullscreen The September 2025 termination was part of a sweeping personnel purge inside the justice department. Photograph: Andrew Harnik/AP Photograph: Andrew Harnik/AP Prosecutor fired over blogposts critical of Trump sues US justice department Read more Share 11h ago 18.27 EDT Oregon governor supports locally-set moratoriums on data center development Oregon’s Democratic governor, Tina Kotek, said she supports locally set moratoriums on new data center construction, with her comments coming nearly two weeks after the city of Hillsboro became the first in the state to enact such a temporary prohibition. “Data center corporations are taking Oregon out to an expensive dinner and leaving our environment, communities, and people to foot the bill,” Kotek said in a statement. “Local governments are doing the right thing in calling for a pause until we can get this right.” Kotek also directed the department of administrative services last week to terminate Oregon’s contract for the sale of approximately 32 acres in southeast Salem for a proposed data center project. Her remarks respond to increasing concerns over data centers’ impacts on the environment and the electrical grid. A poll released this week found that 71% of Oregonians “have a negative impression of data centers.” Oregon currently has about 135 operational and planned data centers, according to Data Center Map . Share Updated at 18.43 EDT 12h ago 17.56 EDT Donald Trump announced a list of deals and investments that aim to bolster mining, totaling more than $2 billion in projects and mining school investments. The largest chunk will go to the California-based company Sila Nanotechnologies to build a battery facility and expand production, coming as a $1.4b investment from the defense department. The department will also give $400m to Sunrise Energy Metals to develop scandium, which is used in fighter jets and spacecraft, among other companies. The Export-Import Bank, which provides financing to support US exports, is also investing in a boron deposit, battery manufacturing, and tantalum and niobium to make electronics, magnet, and steel. Share 12h ago 17.16 EDT Donald Trump once again targeted Jeanine Pirro , the US attorney for the District of Columbia, this time writing a post on Truth Social saying she should “re-visit her hastily made decision” after she dismissed vandalism charges against Olympic canoeist David Hearn last week. Trump reposted images from a photographer of what seemed like the reflecting pool showing “slashes”, according to the US president, who also claimed “there were witnesses to the VANDALISM.” “U.S. Attorney Jeanine Pirro should re-visit her hastily made decision,” he wrote. View image in fullscreen Donald Trump speaks at the White House as Jeanine Pirro looks on in May 2025. Photograph: The Washington Post/Getty Images These comments are just the latest in a series of snubs against Pirro, a longtime Trump ally. After her decision to dismiss the charges, the president accused her of having “folded like an umbrella.” He also told NBC News that he didn’t “understand why she did such a stupid thing.” Share Updated at 17.29 EDT 1 of 4 Next Oldest Oldest Explore more on these topics Republicans US politics live with Shrai Popat Donald Trump Ohio US politics Trump administration US Congress Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)