American Airlines will stop upgrading some flyers on long flights Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Airlines American Airlines will stop upgrading elite flyers to business from coach on long domestic flights Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 3:55 PM EDT Updated Thu, Aug 6 2026 4:30 PM EDT Leslie Josephs @lesliejosephs WATCH LIVE Key Points American Airlines will stop letting elite frequent flyers jump from coach to business class through free upgrades on some of its longest domestic flights. Elite frequent flyers can still get complimentary upgrades to business class if they bought a premium economy ticket or paid for an upgrade to that class. The changes are the latest sign of how airlines are working to give away less of their priciest seats to capitalize on premium travel demand. In this article AAL Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT An American Airlines Boeing 737-823 passneger aircraft moves along the tarmac at Chicago O'Hare International Airport (ORD) on August 23, 2024 in Chicago, Illinois. Daniel Slim | AFP | Getty Images American Airlines elite frequent flyers have to say goodbye to the free coach-to-business leap on several long-haul domestic routes. Starting Aug. 25, American said it will stop putting frequent flyers with elite status on the upgrade list for business class on some of its transcontinental and Hawaii routes. They'll be put on the list for a complimentary upgrade to premium economy instead. The change is the latest sign of how American and other airlines are working to give fewer high-fare seats away to increase revenue and profits. Getting an upgrade overall has become tougher on many flights with more and more customers paying up for pricier, roomier seats. Routes that include the upgrade to premium economy instead of business class are New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport to Los Angeles; Boston to San Francisco; Dallas Fort Worth International Airport to Honolulu, Kona and Maui in Hawaii; Phoenix to Honolulu; and Chicago O'Hare International Airport to Honolulu and Maui. Elite flyers who bought a premium economy ticket or purchased an upgrade after buying a coach ticket are still eligible for the complimentary upgrade, American said. "We'll do our best to accommodate your seating preferences, though options may vary depending on aircraft type and availability," American said. "In Premium Economy, some aircraft types include middle seats, so you may be assigned one if other seating options aren't available." Read more CNBC airline news Southwest Airlines put Texas jet fuel on a boat to LA for the first time amid supply worries United Airlines’ new upsell: Keeping other travelers out of the middle seat Delta launches ‘basic business’ fares without lounge access, seat selection Record heat, crowds drive offseason boom in international travel 'Bring 'em on': Delta wants United's crown over the Pacific, too Meet the pilots flying Spirit Airlines' yellow jets to the desert Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by