World Bank estimates quakes cost Venezuela US$20 billion in damage - The Business Times Search Subscribe World Bank estimates quakes cost Venezuela US$20 billion in damage More than 900 schools across nine states and 38 hospitals affected Summarise Share Add BT as a preferred source Add BT as a preferred source Published Thu, Jul 23, 2026 · 11:20 PM Almost half of the costs stem from damage to residential buildings. PHOTO: REUTERS [CARACAS] The twin earthquakes that hit Venezuela last month may have caused US$19.6 billion in physical damage to buildings and infrastructure, or about 18 per cent of gross domestic product, according to a preliminary assessment by the World Bank. Almost half of the costs stem from damage to residential buildings, the Washington-based lender said in a report published on Thursday (Jul 23), adding that La Guaira state and Distrito Capital that includes central Caracas account for around half of the total damage. The natural disaster, which struck June 24, has resulted in almost 5,400 deaths and 16,740 injured. The two powerful shocks hit north-central Venezuela within 39 seconds of each other, flattening buildings and disrupting power and water systems. “A report like this would usually take months, but we needed to produce it more rapidly because the timeliness of reconstruction will be key,” Susana Cordeiro Guerra, the World Bank’s vice president for Latin America and the Caribbean, said in an interview. “It can help guide financing decisions that the government has to make, and enhance coordination across partners.” The education and health sectors have suffered significantly, according to the report, with more than 900 schools across nine states and 38 hospitals affected by the quakes. Meanwhile “infrastructure related to energy has had relatively minor impacts,” it said. The World Bank’s figure stands well below United Nations estimates of physical damage to housing and infrastructure of around US$37 billion. Asean Intelligence Get insights into businesses across South-east Asia Get the free report Economic recovery will be linked to how fast Venezuela can find financing for reconstruction. It has been challenging to lend money for relief and recovery work to a country that has been disconnected from multilateral lenders for over two decades and been in default since 2017. The World Bank said it’s working alongside other multilateral lenders such as the Inter-American Development Bank and the Development Bank of Latin America (CAF) to coordinate technical and financial support. “Venezuela needs more investment,” Cordeiro Guerra said. “The bank will continue to be a technical partner, and we are undergoing assessments on how to support the government, including financing, to see ways in which we can crowd in private investment effectively.” A five-year reconstruction period would be possible if Venezuela mobilises US$9.8 billion in additional financing to support the fiscal response, and US$9.6 billion in private investment, according to the report. But with no new public and private investments, the country has no choice but to reallocate resources, which will would push the timeline for reconstruction efforts to at least a decade. The economic impact of the quakes also adds pressure to Venezuela’s debt stock. The World Bank said that if additional spending is “fully financed through non-concessional external debt, it would add 8.1 percentage points to Venezuela’s debt-to-GDP ratio by 2036.” BLOOMBERG Decoding Asia newsletter: your guide to navigating Asia in a new global order. Sign up here to get Decoding Asia newsletter. Delivered to your inbox. Free. Venezuela Earthquakes Share with us your feedback on BT's products and services Feedback TRENDING NOW Shopee appliance seller sues customer over bad review – and loses UOL, CapitaLand aim high with S$1.4 billion or S$1,537 psf ppr bid for New Upper Changi site Rooting out the scam scourge in South-east Asia Asia-Pacific aviation: is up really the only way? Popular Topics Banks & Currency News Singapore Companies News Singapore Economy News Latest REITs News Property News Latest T-bills Treasury Bills Results & Interest News Latest SSB Singapore Savings Bonds News Latest COE Certificate of Entitlement News Latest Johor-Singapore SEZ News Latest BTO Build To Order & Sales of Balance News Latest STI Straits Times Index News Latest SGX Dividends, Share Price News Latest Bonds Market News Latest Singapore Stocks To Buy News Latest Singapore Economy News View More Credit Suisse Share Price, Dividends & News UBS Share Price, Dividends & News UOB Share Price, Dividends & News DBS Share Price, Dividends & News OCBC Share Price, Dividends & News Great Eastern Share Price, Dividends & News Citi, Citigroup Share Price, Dividends & News Malaysian Ringgit Rates & News Japanese Yen Rates & News US Dollar Rates & News View More Sembcorp Share Price News Seatrium Share Price News Sheng Siong Share Price News 99 Group Share Price News CapitaLand Share Price News ST Engineering Share Price News Singtel Share Price News SIA Singapore Airlines Share Price News Keppel Corp Share Price News Genting Singapore Share Price News View More CPF Central Provident Fund News MAS Monetary Authority of Singapore News Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore News MOF Ministry of Finance Singapore News Singapore Budget News Singapore Elections News Singapore Manufacturing News Singapore Inflation Rate News GST Goods & Services Tax News CDC Vouchers News View More Keppel Pacific Oak US REIT News Keppel DC REIT News Capitaland Integrated Commercial Trust CICT REIT News Mapletree Industrial Trust REIT News Capitaland Ascendas REIT News Digital Core REIT News Frasers Logistics & Commercial Trust REIT News Mapletree Logistics Trust REIT News Mapletree Pan Asia Commercial Trust REIT News Frasers Centrepoint Trust REIT News View More Singapore ABSD News Singapore Rental Market News GCB Good Class Bungalow News SLA Singapore Land Authority News CDL City Developments Limited News Landed Property News China Property News Residential Property News Commercial & Industrial Property News HDB Resale Flats and Housing News View More News Breaking News Property Residential Commercial & Industrial Singapore International Startups & Tech Opinion & Features ESG Working Life Companies Companies & Markets Banking & Finance Reits & Property Energy & Commodities Telcos, Media & Tech Transport & Logistics Consumer & Healthcare Capital Markets & Currencies Wealth Wealth Wealth & Investing Personal Finance Crypto & Alternative Assets Insurance Living Lifestyle Food & Drink Motoring Style & Society Watches & Jewellery Arts & Design BT Luxe Travel & Wellness Hospitality Partners More E-paper Videos Newsletters Podcasts Personal Subscription Group Subscription Paid Press Release Advertise with Us Events & Awards 中文版 (beta) bt recommends thrive Tech in Asia Asean Business Global Enterprise SGSME Mobile News titles published by SPH Media The Straits Times The Business Times Lianhe Zaobao Berita Harian Tamil Murasu Stomp about us contact us help privacy policy terms & conditions cookie policy data protection policy MDDI (P) 046/10/2024. Published by SPH Media Limited, Co. Regn. No. 202120748H. Copyright © 2026 SPH Media Limited. All rights reserved. 3.11.0