AppLovin stock tanks on Q2 revenue miss Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech AppLovin stock tanks on Q2 revenue miss Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 9:07 AM EDT Updated 2 Hours Ago CJ Haddad WATCH LIVE Key Points Shares of the adtech giant AppLovin sank 19% on Thursday. The company reported second-quarter earnings that missed analyst expectations for revenue. In this article APP Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Jakub Porzycki | Nurphoto | Getty Images Shares of adtech giant AppLovin tanked 19%, a new 52-week low, on Thursday following a second-quarter revenue miss. Here's how the company performed compared with Wall Street's expectations, according to LSEG estimates: Earnings per share: $3.76 vs. $3.76 expected Revenue : $1.92 billion vs. $1.94 billion expected In the earnings call Wednesday, CEO Adam Foroughi blamed the miss on the timing of its improvements to its advertising models as the company continues to expand its artificial intelligence-powered adtech model into e-commerce. Revenue rose 53% year-over-year. "We've always managed this business with the goal of outperforming our own expectations, and this quarter we fell short of that standard," Foroughi told analysts. He added that the "pace of meaningful model improvement was lighter than normal during the quarter and the next step up in model performance landed just after quarter ended." Piper Sandler analyst James Callahan downgraded the stock to neutral on Thursday following the miss, slashing the bank's price target from $665 to $385. "We remain impressed by mgmt, the business, and their market position, but we have more questions than answers on beat/raise cadence from here, and move to the sideline," Callahan wrote. Read more CNBC tech news 'AI Kill Switch' bill needs to be passed this year amid ongoing rogue agent hacks, Rep. Lieu says SpaceX stock could face further pressure as first batch of shares unlock since IPO Google is expanding its AI empire — and losing the people who built it Hadrian valued at nearly $8 billion after fresh funding as money pours into defense tech Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by