'Spider-Man: Brand New Day' debut: $360M, highest domestic opening ever Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Entertainment 'Spider-Man: Brand New Day' beats out 'Avengers: Endgame' for highest domestic opening ever Published Mon, Aug 3 2026 10:55 AM EDT Updated Mon, Aug 3 2026 11:46 AM EDT Sarah Whitten @sarahwhit10 WATCH LIVE Key Points Sony and Marvel's "Spider-Man: Brand New Day" set the record for the highest domestic opening weekend of all time with $360 million in ticket sales. Globally, the film tallied $932 million. "Brand New Day" is on pace to be the fourth billion-dollar film of 2026, joining Pixar's "Toy Story 5," Lionsgate's "Michael" and Universal and Illumination's "The Super Mario Galaxy Movie." In this article SONY DIS Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Tom Holland stars as Peter Parker, aka Spider-Man in Sony and Marvel's "Spider-Man: Brand New Day." Sony There's a new king of the domestic box office. Sony and Marvel's "Spider-Man: Brand New Day" webbed up more than $360 million during its opening weekend in the U.S. and Canada, breaking the record for the highest-grossing debut of all time. The previous record was $357 million, set by "Avengers: Endgame" in 2019. Globally, the latest Spider-Man installment tallied $932 million, shy of the $1.2 billion record still held by "Endgame." The Tom Holland-led "Brand New Day" kicked off with record-shattering Thursday preview sales and snared $169.3 million on Friday, including presales, and $101.5 million on Saturday. Sony had initially projected an $84 million Sunday, but moviegoers flocked to theaters, driving ticket sales to $88.7 million for the day. The film's opening weekend also marked the biggest opening weekend in Sony Pictures history and the biggest debut for the Spider-Man franchise. The feat comes even as "Brand New Day" was boxed out of Imax screens, which were snapped up for Christopher Nolan's and Universal's "The Odyssey." Rival premium large formats thrived, however, as Dolby Cinema, ScreenX and 4DX all reported record-breaking ticket sales over the weekend. "Brand New Day" is on pace to be the fourth billion-dollar film of 2026, joining Pixar's "Toy Story 5," Lionsgate's "Michael" and Universal and Illumination's "The Super Mario Galaxy Movie." Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by