Trump to announce $180 million to boost mining education - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News First on CBS Politics Trump to announce $180 million to boost mining education By Jennifer Jacobs , Jennifer Jacobs Senior White House reporter Jennifer Jacobs is a senior White House reporter at CBS News. Read Full Bio Jennifer Jacobs , Joe Walsh Joe Walsh Senior Editor, Politics Joe Walsh is a senior editor for digital politics at CBS News. Joe previously covered breaking news for Forbes and local news in Boston. Read Full Bio Joe Walsh August 7, 2026 / 5:00 AM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google President Trump is planning to announce over $180 million in grants to boost educational and trade programs for the mining industry Friday, CBS News has learned, part of a bid to increase critical mineral production. Mr. Trump will unveil the plans at a roundtable at the State Department with educational leaders from universities like the Colorado School of Mines, a White House official told CBS News. Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Secretary of the Interior Doug Burgum and Secretary of Commerce Howard Lutnick are also slated to participate. The Department of Energy is launching a $100 million grant program aimed at expanding the mining and critical mineral workforce by dramatically increasing the number of people with degrees in those areas over the next two years. The program is expected to financially support scholarships and other programs, an official said. Universities, community colleges, trade schools, industry groups and other partners will be eligible to apply. The military is also offering more than $80 million in additional funding to three universities. The Colorado School of Mines is expected to get $32.7 million for a tech development hub, the South Dakota School of Mines will get $25 million to set up workforce development programs and Johns Hopkins University will get $23.6 million for a recycling-focused program. The grant programs come as the Trump administration pushes to increase U.S. production of critical minerals like lithium, silicon, graphite and rare-earth elements. Those materials are essential for making semiconductors, aerospace equipment and many other modern technologies, but China mines and refines an outsized share of the world's critical minerals. Mr. Trump has also sought to boost the coal mining industry. His administration pledged $700 million in grants to coal plants and a coal export terminal in June, and it has eased environmental regulations that restricted the coal industry . More from CBS News Where the Trump administration's lawsuits seeking voter data stand Trump issues new executive orders aimed at birthright citizenship Behind closed doors, Trump, White House aides hope Rep. Max Miller exits race Cruz calls for Trump to arm Iranians: "Our objective should be regime collapse" Go deeper with The Free Press What Happens After Trump?: Why Tim Miller Thinks Politics Can’t Go Back Meet the Free Speech Warrior of the Trump Administration In: Education Trump Administration © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. What is "energy weaponization"? What is the growing trend of "energy weaponization"? 03:04 What is the growing trend of "energy weaponization"? (03:04) Where the Trump administration's lawsuits seeking voter data stand Trump issues new executive orders aimed at birthright citizenship Behind closed doors, Trump, White House aides hope Rep. Max Miller exits race What Happens After Trump?: Why Tim Miller Thinks Politics Can’t Go Back Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue