GB Snowsport loses funding from UK Sport but athletes unaffected - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Winter Olympics Medal Table Medal Results Video Team GB Sports GB Snowsport loses UK Sport funding but athletes unaffected Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Charlotte Bankes and Huw Nightingale won Team GB's first gold medal on snow at a Winter Olympics By Adam Wild BBC Sport Published 5 hours ago UK Sport will no longer channel investment in skiing and snowboarding through the sports' UK governing body, GB Snowsport. It will instead find a new way to deliver £12.5m of funding to athletes and coaches before the 2030 Winter Olympics and Paralympics. The news comes six months after Team GB enjoyed their most successful Winter Olympics at Milan-Cortina. They won five medals, including an unprecedented three golds, one of which was in the snowboard cross mixed team event - a first ever gold medal on snow. UK Sport has written to all snowsport athletes who receive funding to make them aware of the decision, also confirming funding grants will continue to be paid directly. An independent review will now be set up into the governance of GBS. The funding is part of a record investment of more than £33m into winter sports for the four-year cycle. Kate Baker, director of performance and people at UK Sport, said: "Competition across Olympic and Paralympic winter sport is only getting stronger, which is why it's more important than ever that we invest where we can have the biggest impact. "It is also why we are not afraid of driving the change needed to give our athletes the very best chance of success." In a statement, GBS said it was "disappointed" by the decision but will continue to work with UK Sport. However, it said it "reserves the right to keep all options open to ensure that the achievements of the past four years are not lost". GB Snowsport has changed its chair twice in the past three years and is currently advertising for a new chair. Michael Oesterlin, who has been a non-executive director at the organisation for four years, is interim chair. The GBS statement added: "We have recently concluded an independent governance review funded by UK Sport, which has confirmed that our governance standards remain strong and appropriate. "We look forward to engaging fully and robustly in any new review, which we are confident will reach the same conclusions." The increased overall investment is up from about £32.5m for the 2026 Winter Olympics and Paralympics cycle. It was the third time in four Winter Olympics that Team GB had won five medals, but they had only ever won a maximum of one gold medal on the previous occasions. ParalympicsGB returned with one silver medal. The next Games will be held in the French Alps in 2030. Baker added the results "showed what British winter sport is capable of, with incredible performances across more sports than ever before". "With another Winter Games on European soil and an incredibly talented crop of athletes, we're excited by what's possible over the next four years," she added. From the investment announcement, about a third (£10m) will go to bobsleigh and skeleton, which provided two of Team GB's three gold medals at Milan-Cortina. Other sports benefiting are curling (£6.54m), wheelchair curling (£1.93m), ice skating (£2m) and ice hockey which will receive £445,000 in 'transition funding' which Tim Bratton, interim chief executive of Ice Hockey UK, says will be used to "transition into a self-sustainable governing body for our fantastic sport". From 2030, funding for bobsleigh and skeleton programmes from UK Sport will be operated by a new "multi-sport delivery organisation" called Sport Org which will operate elite performance programmes on behalf of governing bodies. Sport Org already oversees curling and wheelchair curling programmes and will take over from the British Bobsleigh & Skeleton Association (BBSA) in the run-up to Utah 2034. Related topics Winter Sports Winter Olympics Alpine Skiing Bobsleigh Ice Hockey Figure Skating Cross-Country Skiing Skeleton Shorts Previous Next 1:29 Could Pollock be paid £1m a season? It's complicated... 00:01:29, play video Could Pollock be paid £1m a season? It's complicated... 0:27 Maresca very similar to Pep - Foden. 00:00:27, play video Maresca very similar to Pep - Foden 0:41 Wenger speaks out about Infantino's World Cup plan. 00:00:41, play video Wenger speaks out about Infantino's World Cup plan 0:59 Why does a Swedish club want to pay £1m for a National League player? 00:00:59, play video Why does a Swedish club want to pay £1m for a National League player? 1:30 Goodburn's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Goodburn's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:33 Alonso on Mudryk's first day back with Chelsea squad. 00:00:33, play video Alonso on Mudryk's first day back with Chelsea squad 0:58 Aston Villa finally register signing after court battle. 00:00:58, play video Aston Villa finally register signing after court battle 0:59 Mudryk is back, but what actually happened? 00:00:59, play video Mudryk is back, but what actually happened? 0:52 Legends and fans in Milan mourn Baresi. 00:00:52, play video Legends and fans in Milan mourn Baresi Top stories Infantino calls executive meeting as criticism mounts Published 2 hours ago Turkish club Trabzonspor begin talks to sign Salah Published 35 minutes ago Drinking culture embedded in cricket - Stokes Published 9 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC Detective Lindo and the team are back in a brand new series Professor David Keith answers questions on climate engineering The chilling story of how a debt-ridden undertaker betrayed grieving families The return of the thrilling, award-winning drama about the CIA Elsewhere in Sport Why £1m-a-season deal will be hard for Pollock and Hearn to find A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season Runs and records galore as Sunrisers beat Spirit in men's Hundred. Video Runs and records galore as Sunrisers beat Spirit in men's Hundred Why we are still waiting for the 'Newey effect' - F1 Q&A Meet the £1m-rated non-league star Abdulmalik The summer that changed Welsh football The ex-sandwich maker who cycles to Champions League games Inside Liverpool's summer so far - should fans be worried? How Mumbai Indians takeover has affected MI London & Surrey From European hopes to relegation form - will Moyes reignite Everton? 'Nothing is strange' - how clubs prepare for the transfer window 'No guarantees' - joyful Glasgow cannot banish all Commonwealth doubts Finucane 'screaming inside' after record-breaking Games Dog walk and expletive text - key findings in Vondrousova anti-doping case Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.