Labour government says more people working illegally are being arrested and deported – UK politics live | Politics | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to key events Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us UK US politics World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Football Newsletters Business Environment UK politics Science Tech Global development Obituaries Politics live with Andrew Sparrow Politics Labour government says more people working illegally are being arrested and deported – UK politics live More than double number of arrests made since 2024 compared with previous two-year period LIVE Updated 18m ago Taz Ali Fri 7 Aug 2026 05.51 EDT First published on Fri 7 Aug 2026 05.28 EDT Share Key events 18m ago Tory plan to ban foreign nationals from social housing condemned as ‘divisive’ 38m ago Primary schools to be told to identify children at risk of future unemployment 40m ago Government says more people working illegally are being arrested and deported Home Office figures showing more than 17,000 people have been arrested since the July 2024 general election. Photograph: Paul Faith/The Guardian View image in fullscreen Home Office figures showing more than 17,000 people have been arrested since the July 2024 general election. Photograph: Paul Faith/The Guardian Taz Ali Fri 7 Aug 2026 05.51 EDT First published on Fri 7 Aug 2026 05.28 EDT Share From 40m ago 05.28 EDT Government says more people working illegally are being arrested and deported Morning and welcome to our UK politics blog. The government said more arrests are being made for illegal working, with Home Office figures showing more than 17,000 people have been arrested since the July 2024 general election – more than double the number recorded in the previous two-year period. Of those arrested, 2,357 people have been deported, according to the Home Office, a 50% increase compared with the number returned between July 2022 and June 2024. Commenting on those numbers on the media round this morning, the border security and asylum minister Anna Turley said it was “the highest levels in British history”. “We’re sending a message that if you think you can come to this country and work illegally and disappear off the books, then our immigration enforcement service will find you [and] will arrest you,” she told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme. Meanwhile, the Conservative party has pledged to end social housing eligibility for all foreign nationals , saying it would free up almost 230,000 for British families. Under the proposals, tenants in England who do not qualify would be expected to move out of their homes within six months. The plans have been described as “divisive” by Sarah Elliott, the chief executive of housing charity Shelter, who said the policy would “brutally kick people out of their homes, including thousands of families and pensioners who have lived in them for decades”. You can read more on that story here: Tory plan to ban foreign nationals from social housing condemned as ‘divisive’ Read more Also today: Chaos has descended on the Norfolk town of Thetford for a third night in a row as violent anti-immigration protests saw crowds of people attempt to storm a home believed to be housing asylum seekers. Norfolk police said two men in their 40s were arrested last night while some of the asylum seekers had to be escorted from homes as a result of the unrest. Speaking on the BBC’s Today programme, Norfolk chief constable Paul Sanford said officers were “subjected to significant aggression”, with one hit with a rock, one bitten and another spat at. The government is also under pressure to review the potential early release of two of the men who killed PC Andrew Harper. Det Supt Stuart Blaik, who led the investigation in 2019, told the BBC he was “deeply concerned and appalled” by the prospect and that Jessie Cole and Albert Bowers could be freed halfway through their 13-year sentences. Share Key events 18m ago Tory plan to ban foreign nationals from social housing condemned as ‘divisive’ 38m ago Primary schools to be told to identify children at risk of future unemployment 40m ago Government says more people working illegally are being arrested and deported 18m ago 05.51 EDT Tory plan to ban foreign nationals from social housing condemned as ‘divisive’ Caroline Davies Plans to ban foreign nationals from social housing under a Conservative government have been condemned as “divisive”. Under proposals revealed on Friday, the party said about 230,000 homes would become available if foreign nationals were prevented from accessing social housing . Ending new tenancies for all foreign nationals, as well as current tenancies for couples where neither person is a UK, Irish or EU citizen, would free up an estimated 228,144 homes for British families, the party said. Under the plans, tenants in England who do not qualify for the housing would be expected to move out of their homes within six months. Foreign nationals with settled status, refugee status or specific humanitarian protections currently qualify for social housing. Asylum seekers are not eligible for social housing, unless in exceptional circumstances such as domestic abuse cases. Sarah Elliott, the chief executive of housing charity Shelter, said: “These divisive plans would brutally kick people out of their homes, including thousands of families and pensioners who have lived in them for decades. And let’s not forget that social tenants pay rent, which goes back to the public purse and into society.” Read more: Tory plan to ban foreign nationals from social housing condemned as ‘divisive’ Read more Share 38m ago 05.30 EDT Primary schools to be told to identify children at risk of future unemployment Richard Partington Primary schools in England should be required to identify children at risk of leaving education at 16 without finding a job, a government review is to recommend. Alan Milburn, who is leading a review into Britain’s crisis in youth worklessness , said he would call for sweeping changes in education policy alongside a shake-up of the benefits system to address the problem. Speaking to the Guardian, he said ministers needed to “make somebody responsible” for identifying and supporting the children who risked becoming Neet (not in employment, education or training) after their GCSE year up to the age of 24. “The warning signs are there from a very early, early age. You know, frankly from preschool,” he said. “So, definitely primary schools should be identifying children who are at risk of being Neet. And secondary schools and other services should be intercepting, intervening, supporting and helping those young people to get on a different path.” Read more: Primary schools to be told to identify children at risk of future unemployment Read more Share 40m ago 05.28 EDT Government says more people working illegally are being arrested and deported Morning and welcome to our UK politics blog. The government said more arrests are being made for illegal working, with Home Office figures showing more than 17,000 people have been arrested since the July 2024 general election – more than double the number recorded in the previous two-year period. Of those arrested, 2,357 people have been deported, according to the Home Office, a 50% increase compared with the number returned between July 2022 and June 2024. Commenting on those numbers on the media round this morning, the border security and asylum minister Anna Turley said it was “the highest levels in British history”. “We’re sending a message that if you think you can come to this country and work illegally and disappear off the books, then our immigration enforcement service will find you [and] will arrest you,” she told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme. Meanwhile, the Conservative party has pledged to end social housing eligibility for all foreign nationals , saying it would free up almost 230,000 for British families. Under the proposals, tenants in England who do not qualify would be expected to move out of their homes within six months. The plans have been described as “divisive” by Sarah Elliott, the chief executive of housing charity Shelter, who said the policy would “brutally kick people out of their homes, including thousands of families and pensioners who have lived in them for decades”. You can read more on that story here: Tory plan to ban foreign nationals from social housing condemned as ‘divisive’ Read more Also today: Chaos has descended on the Norfolk town of Thetford for a third night in a row as violent anti-immigration protests saw crowds of people attempt to storm a home believed to be housing asylum seekers. Norfolk police said two men in their 40s were arrested last night while some of the asylum seekers had to be escorted from homes as a result of the unrest. Speaking on the BBC’s Today programme, Norfolk chief constable Paul Sanford said officers were “subjected to significant aggression”, with one hit with a rock, one bitten and another spat at. The government is also under pressure to review the potential early release of two of the men who killed PC Andrew Harper. Det Supt Stuart Blaik, who led the investigation in 2019, told the BBC he was “deeply concerned and appalled” by the prospect and that Jessie Cole and Albert Bowers could be freed halfway through their 13-year sentences. Share Explore more on these topics Politics Politics live with Andrew Sparrow Immigration and asylum Labour Conservatives Norfolk Prisons and probation Home Office Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed UK US politics World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Football Newsletters Business Environment UK politics Science Tech Global development Obituaries News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)