Restaurant Brands International (Q2) 2026 earnings Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Restaurants Restaurant Brands International earnings beat as Burger King's U.S. business soars Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 6:32 AM EDT Updated 7 Min Ago Amelia Lucas @Thxamelian WATCH LIVE Key Points Restaurant Brands International topped Wall Street's quarterly earnings expectations. Burger King's U.S. business reported same-store sales growth of 8.5%. Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen was the weakest performer in the company's portfolio. In this article QSR Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT A general view of logo and signage for a Burger King, Home of the Whopper on January 29, 2026 in London, United Kingdom. John Keeble | Getty Images Restaurant Brands International on Thursday reported quarterly earnings that topped analysts' expectations, fueled by strong growth for the once-struggling Burger King, both domestically and abroad. "Burger King's performance is a great example of what's possible when you invest in the fundamentals and execute well – an approach we're applying across all of our brands," Restaurant Brands CEO Josh Kobza said in a statement. But shares of Restaurant Brands fell more than 1% in morning trading as the results showed its other chains struggling. Here's what the company reported compared with what Wall Street was expecting, based on a survey of analysts by LSEG: Earnings per share: $1.07 adjusted vs. $1.03 expected Revenue: $2.52 billion, in line with expectations Restaurant Brands reported second-quarter net income attributable to shareholders of $507 million, or $1.45 per share, up from $189 million, or 57 cents per share, a year earlier. Excluding transaction costs, advisory fees and other items, the company earned $1.07 per share. Net revenue rose 4.5% to $2.52 billion. Burger King's U.S. same-store sales climbed 8.5%. In recent quarters, the burger chain's turnaround has taken hold in its home market. Restaurant renovations, sharper marketing, and a focus on core menu items like the Whopper have helped Burger King steal market share. Rival McDonald's reported U.S. same-store sales growth of just 0.8% in its second quarter , for comparison. Executives said that they were disappointed by the performance, and McDonald's tapped a new U.S. president to help accelerate its sales. Some of its issues resulted from frequent shuffling of its value offerings; Burger King U.S. President Tom Curtis told CNBC that Burger King has benefited from its consistent deal offerings, like its $5 duos and $7 trios. Still, executives said that there is more room for improvement for Burger King. The chain has further plans to improve its menu after upgrading the Whopper earlier this year, and not all of its U.S. restaurants have been remodeled yet. Restaurant renovations could accelerate if beef prices fall, Curtis said. Burger King is also seeing strong results outside of the U.S. Restaurant Brands said international Burger King restaurants saw same-store sales growth of 5.4% during the quarter. But the rest of Restaurant Brands' chains did not fare as well. Tim Hortons' same-store sales in Canada and overall were essentially flat for the quarter. "Taking a step back, while our marketing did not perform as anticipated in Q2, we were encouraged by stronger business performance [at the chain] as the quarter progressed and are excited about the back half calendar," Kobza said on the company's earnings conference call. Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen reported U.S. same-store sales declines of 5.2%. The fried chicken chain has struggled in recent quarters as more restaurants compete for a smaller pool of diners, who have grown increasingly value conscious. "While sales remained soft during the quarter, we're encouraged by the improvement we saw and continue to execute against the same priorities," Kobza said, adding that he expects that Popeyes same-store sales will start growing again in the second half of the year. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by