‘Game of Thrones’ author George R. R. Martin opens up about experiencing depression IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Culture & Trends ‘Game of Thrones’ author George R. R. Martin opens up about experiencing depression “The worst may be yet to come,” the 77-year-old author wrote in a blog post to his fans, adding that “getting old is no fun.” Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 George R.R. Martin. Jeff Kravitz / FilmMagic for HBO file Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 4, 2026, 1:28 PM EDT By David K. Li George R. R. Martin, author of the wildly popular “Game of Thrones” book series, shared that he’s pulled back from updating fans via his blog as he “battled sadness and depression.” “This year has been… stressful, to say the least,” Martin wrote in a blog post published this week, titled “Better Late Than Never. ” “So much has been happening, it’s been overwhelming. Some great things, exciting things. Dreams coming true. But there have been nightmares too. I have lost friends. Battled sadness and depression.” The entry marked Martin’s return to blogging since since Feb. 19. In his latest post, he thanked his “great staff of assistants,” who he said have worked tirelessly to keep him from “falling further and further behind.” In recent years, the fantasy author has been called out by readers who complain about the delayed publication of the sixth “Game of Thrones” book, “The Winds of Winter.” Martin addressed the criticism last year , writing in a May 2025 post that he “ought to get some other writer to pinch hit for me… I am going to die soon anyway, because I am so old. I lost all interest in ‘A Song of Ice and Fire’ decades ago. I don’t give a s--- about writing any longer, I just sit around and spend my money.” In Monday’s post, Martin referenced his age again, writing, “The worst may be yet to come. I turned seventy-seven last September, and I tell you, getting old is no fun.” He told fans that the combination of age and depression could mean his “posts are likely to [be] short and rushed” in the immediate future, adding that his “minions” may be helping him more. But 2026 hasn’t been all sadness for the author, he said. In his post, he highlighted the nine Emmy nominations bestowed on his “A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms” on HBO Max. Martin has won four Emmys , all as co-executive producer for “Game of Thrones.” The show won Emmys for outstanding drama series in 2019, 2018, 2016 and 2015. This year’s awards show, which will air on NBC, takes place on Sept. 14 in Los Angeles. “I hope to attend…” Martin wrote, “but that depends on… well, on a lot of things.” Share Add NBC News to Google David K. Li Senior Breaking News Reporter About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC