Disney deal with TikTok will let people use Marvel, Pixar, Star Wars characters to make videos - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Michigan Senate Primary World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds MoneyWatch | Managing Your Money CBS News Price Tracker Watch CBS News MoneyWatch Disney deal with TikTok will let people use Marvel, Pixar, Star Wars characters to make videos By Mary Cunningham Mary Cunningham Reporter, MoneyWatch Mary Cunningham is a reporter for CBS MoneyWatch. She previously worked at "60 Minutes," CBSNews.com and CBS News 24/7 as part of the CBS News Associate Program. Read Full Bio Mary Cunningham Updated on: August 5, 2026 / 10:36 AM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google The Walt Disney Company and TikTok on Wednesday announced a deal that will allow content creators to make videos featuring characters from Disney brands such as Marvel, Pixar and Star Wars. That short-form content will be shared across TikTok and on Vert, a vertical video feed on the Disney+ streaming app, the companies said in what they described as a "first-of-its-kind global deal." A pilot program for the videos will roll out in the coming months and then spread to other markets. TikTok creators will have access to a large library of Disney content, including hundreds of films and TV shows, the companies said. In a statement announcing the partnership , Asad Ayaz, chief marketing and brand officer for Disney, said the deal will give "creators a bigger stage to share what they've made, and audiences more to discover on Disney+ every day." The deal highlights the growing importance of user-created content in entertainment. For Disney, it presents an opportunity to expand its audience and drive online engagement, particularly among younger Americans. In a May call with Wall Street analysts, Disney CEO Josh D'Amaro said short-form content is something the company is "actively leaning into." "Short-form and creative content, they've exploded in the past few years," he told investors. "And it's an area we're focused on because we have deeply committed fans who — they love our brands and our franchises and characters, and they want to engage with them in this new way. And this is specifically important when we think about Gen Alpha, obviously the newest generation of Disney fans." The new partnership could also boost TikTok by offering access to content from a popular entertainment brand. Disney struck a licensing deal with OpenAI last year that allowed users of the Sora AI video app to create videos featuring Disney characters. However, OpenAI scrapped Sora earlier this year. Edited by Alain Sherter More from CBS News More adult children live at home now than during the pandemic JPMorgan Chase to invest $750 billion in boosting housing and homebuying How much interest will a $20,000 1-year CD earn if opened this August? What to watch for in SpaceX's first public earnings report today Go deeper with The Free Press The Kids Who Grew Up Online Are Coming for Hollywood Is Social Media the New Big Tobacco? In: Disney TikTok © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. CBS News Live CBS News 24/7 Live CBS News 24/7 More adult children live at home now than during the pandemic JPMorgan Chase to invest $750 billion in boosting housing and homebuying How much interest will a $20,000 1-year CD earn if opened this August? The Kids Who Grew Up Online Are Coming for Hollywood Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue