Why is Amanda Knox's upcoming Edinburgh Fringe comedy show causing controversy? - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Why is Amanda Knox's upcoming Edinburgh Fringe comedy show causing controversy? Why is Amanda Knox's upcoming Edinburgh Fringe comedy show causing controversy? Close Amanda Knox, a woman involved in one of the world's most famous murder cases, is set to perform a comedy show at The Edinburgh Festival Fringe. Knox was convicted and later acquitted of murdering her British roommate, Meredith Kercher, in Italy in 2007. Knox's show, Cartwheel, is about motherhood and how she will explain her experiences to her daughter, according to the festival's website. "I don't joke about Meredith's death. I joke a lot about how I was vilified, but I don't joke about her murder," she had told the Telegraph newspaper , external . Kercher's sister, Stephanie told BBC Breakfast her sibling "wouldn't find these topics of any comedy value". A petition against the show, set up by a friend of Meredith, has been signed by just over 2,400 people, and says the show disrespects her memory and also risks normalising violence against women. A spokesperson for Knox said the show, set to run over 11 days from Friday, honours Kercher's memory. Find out more about what Stephanie Kercher told the BBC. Section News Published 10 hours ago Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing Related topics Edinburgh Festival Fringe Follow Edinburgh Festival Fringe close panel You are now following Edinburgh Festival Fringe Updates from your News topics will appear in My News and in a collection on the News homepage . Read description Editor's recommendations Why is Amanda Knox's upcoming Edinburgh Fringe comedy show causing controversy? Video, 00:01:11 Why is Amanda Knox's upcoming Edinburgh Fringe comedy show causing controversy? Section News Published 10 hours ago 1:11 Up Next. Key details as boxer charged with Athens killing. Video, 00:01:26 Key details as boxer charged with Athens killing Subsection Europe Published 45 minutes ago Up Next 1:26 How Ukraine is taking the war 'deeper' into Russia. Video, 00:01:24 How Ukraine is taking the war 'deeper' into Russia Subsection Europe Published 4 hours ago 1:24 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. Video, 00:01:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos Subsection Asia Published 23 hours ago 1:41 Watch: 'Scariest night' as Ukraine fails to intercept Russian attack. Video, 00:01:05 Watch: 'Scariest night' as Ukraine fails to intercept Russian attack Subsection Europe Published 1 day ago 1:05 Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack. Video, 00:01:02 Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack Subsection Europe Published 2 days ago 1:02 Watch: Evacuations as Guatemala volcano erupts. Video, 00:00:36 Watch: Evacuations as Guatemala volcano erupts Subsection Latin America Published 2 days ago 0:36 Moment pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at Indonesian airport. Video, 00:00:37 Moment pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at Indonesian airport Subsection Asia Published 2 days ago 0:37 At the scene of deadly Moscow bomb blast. Video, 00:01:26 At the scene of deadly Moscow bomb blast Subsection Europe Published 4 days ago 1:26 Fastest runner to cross the Alps says it was an incredible experience. Video, 00:01:51 Fastest runner to cross the Alps says it was an incredible experience Subsection Europe Published 4 days ago 1:51 Wildfires scorch Washington state as thousands evacuated and emergency declared. Video, 00:00:35 Wildfires scorch Washington state as thousands evacuated and emergency declared Subsection US & Canada Published 4 days ago 0:35 Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.