Doximity shares double. Here's what's driving it Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Markets Shares of this digital medical platform jumped more than 100% overnight. Here’s why Published Fri, Aug 7 2026 9:18 AM EDT Updated Fri, Aug 7 2026 4:33 PM EDT Tobias Burns WATCH LIVE Key Points Doximity had a solid first quarter and raised its full year revenue guidance. But AI search isn't baked into these forecasts, analysts believe, and it's bringing in 10 times the revenue it costs to run, the CEO revealed on the conference call. The incredible surge was boosted by short sellers having to unwind a sizable bet against the company. In this article DOCS Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Doximity at the New York Stock Exchange for its initial public offering on June 24, 2021. Source: NYSE Shares of medical platform Doximity more than doubled at one point in overnight trading Friday after some bold comments on the margin for its new AI search tool. CEO Jeffrey Tangney said the product brings in 10 times what it costs to run. "It's early days on our AI search product, but I can tell you we're earning more than 10 times per search in revenue than it costs," he said on Thursday during the company's first-quarter fiscal 2027 earnings call. "Over time, we probably expect the overall AI cost, if anything, [to] go down as models get more efficient, so we feel good about the unit economics there," Tangney added. Doximity shares were up more than 130% in premarket trading before settling down a bit as the market opened officially. The stock finished up Friday 33%. Doximity, 1 day Analysts think these spectacular returns are not yet baked into the company's already solid financials. Doximity reported first-quarter revenues of $156.6 million and adjusted EBITDA of $74.8 million, both of which were above consensus estimates. The company also raised its full year revenue guidance range up by $6 million, or 5%, to between $671 million and $681 million -- but the huge AI profitability potential is likely not a part of that boosted forecast, analysts said. "The FY27 raise (which is mostly comprised of the F1Q27 beat) does not reflect a significant contribution from the expanding AI commercial pipeline described on the earning call and in callbacks," Jessica Tassan at Piper Sandler wrote to clients in a Friday note. Tassan said she thought that management is taking a "conservative approach" to AI search revenue in its FY27 outlook. Shares of Doximity, which sported a market value of $3.7 billion before Friday's surge, were down 50% for the year before the results. Short squeeze CEO Tangney suggested that the AI search is resulting in not only higher profitability but also a larger addressable market. "Frankly, the [total addressable market] that this unlocks for us within health, within pharma has been a real surprise and upside for us," he said. Longer-term margins could swell along with the increasing market size. "[AI search is] reinforcing confidence that [Doximity's] elevated AI investments will ultimately support attractive long-term margins," Michael Cherney at Leerink Partnerships wrote to clients on Thursday. While great news for Doximity, the huge upswing the in the stock on Friday morning is bad for anybody who is shorting it. About 17% of shares available for trading were sold short heading into the earnings results, according to FactSet. As those short sellers are forced to unwind those positions, it likely added fuel to Doximity's surge. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by