Alan Jones’s alleged victim denies ‘fabricating’ claims against broadcaster during robust cross-examination | Alan Jones trial | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Alan Jones (centre) arrives at Downing Centre local court in Sydney on Thursday. Photograph: Bianca de Marchi/AAP View image in fullscreen Alan Jones (centre) arrives at Downing Centre local court in Sydney on Thursday. Photograph: Bianca de Marchi/AAP Alan Jones trial Alan Jones’s alleged victim denies ‘fabricating’ claims against broadcaster during robust cross-examination Former 2UE and 2GB radio broadcaster is facing 22 charges. Jones, 85, has pleaded not guilty Follow our Australia news live blog for latest updates Get our breaking news email , free app or daily news podcast Amanda Meade and Jordyn Beazley Thu 6 Aug 2026 03.32 EDT First published on Thu 6 Aug 2026 02.48 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google A former student sports star has denied in a Sydney court that he “fabricated” indecent assault allegations against broadcaster Alan Jones after he lost his police job and fell on “extremely hard times”. Jones’s defence barrister, Gabrielle Bashir SC, on Wednesday suggested to complainant J during cross-examination that he had a financial motive to report his alleged indecent assaults 20 years after the incidents. The former police officer, now in his 40s, had earlier told Sydney’s Downing Centre local court that Jones had touched him sexually when he was a teenager. J was being financially supported by the broadcaster at the time. J told the court earlier this week that Jones gifted him a Nokia mobile phone, a Nissan car and a stipend which rose from $350 to $600 a week over a nine-year period. Sign up for the Breaking News Australia email “Your evidence in relation to payments into your account from Belford [company] and the increase in payments has been you trying to assert Jones had an ulterior motive for making payments to you?” Bashir asked the former athlete. J replied: “No, I wasn’t trying to assert that.” Bashir continued: “Do you accept that those payments were for the purpose of assisting you for your training and competition and living expenses?” “Yes,” complainant J told the court. The cross-examination of J could not immediately be reported as it was subject to an interim non-publication order. But judge Glenn Walsh lifted the order on Thursday afternoon. Jones is facing 22 indecent assault and sexual touching charges in relation to six men. He has pleaded not guilty. The court heard on Wednesday that J resigned from the police after he was convicted of assault and found to have breached the force’s code of conduct. Alan Jones paid student athlete he is accused of indecently assaulting $110,000 over a decade, trial hears Read more Bashir put to him that he lost his income of $120,000 a year and had to pay child support and rent, and had to move in with a relative. J denied during cross-examination that he had a gambling problem. Challenged by the judge about the relevance of J’s financial problems to his complaint about the alleged indecent assaults by Jones, Bashir said: “A complaint like this, if successful, is a stepping stone to civil proceedings. I will be putting that to him. “It is an opportunity to then go on to make a claim and an opportunity to cast himself in a different light after he lost his job,” Jones’s barrister told the court. J earlier this week told the court he had decided to go to NSW police about his alleged assaults after seeing in the media that Jones had been arrested and charged in November 2024. Bashir said on Wednesday during cross-examination: “When you sent the email [to police] in November 2024, you did so as part of a decision to fabricate claims Jones sexually touched you as a teen?” “No, I wasn’t planning to fabricate anything,” complainant J replied. Bashir said J hadn’t raised the alleged incidents when he was charged with drink-driving in the mid-2000s, or when he was charged with assault in the early 2020s or when he was subsequently facing termination from the police force. J agreed he did not raise the allegations at those times. Asked whether he saw Jones’s arrest as a “life-changing opportunity”, J said he was not after financial compensation and only wanted justice. “I’ve been clear on this,” he told the court. “I don’t want anything from this. I won’t accept [money]. I don’t want anything but proper justice in relation to this matter.” skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | When needed Sign up to Breaking News Australia Get the most important news as it breaks Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion Bashir alleged that J gave the police false statements about when Jones had given him the phone and car. The court heard that J originally told police Jones gave him the phone when he was 14 or 15, but he was in fact 18. J agreed after being shown documents that Jones gave him the car when he turned 18 and had left school, and not when he turned 17, as he had previously told the court. “At the time I provided the details, I thought that was accurate,” J said on Wednesday. Bashir suggested J’s claim that Jones increased his weekly stipend after Jones said he had “been a good boy” was also a fabrication. She said his stipend was increased by Jones when he had success in his sport. Bashir: “Do you accept those payments, to your knowledge, were for the purpose of assisting you with training, competition and living expenses?” “Yes. He did pay me to assist with training and competing … I don’t know if that was the reason for the increase in the payments,” J told the court. Bashir then said: “It’s the case, isn’t it, that you are recasting these payments as something sinister when in fact your understanding at the time was that they were anything but?” “No,” J replied in court on Wednesday. Bashir’s Thursday cross-examination focused on inconsistencies between his police statement and evidence he gave this week in court. Bashir pointed out during her cross-examination on Thursday that J had described it as “peck” in his police statement but described it as a “chomping motion” kiss in his evidence to the court. J conceded that he “might” have got it “wrong” that Jones kissed him with a “chomping” motion during one of the alleged indecent assaults in Canberra. “I might have got the kiss wrong, but there was definitely a kiss in that room,” he told the court. “I won’t steer away from the fact there was kiss because there was.” Jones has denied all wrongdoing and said the allegations were either baseless or distorted the truth. Bashir on Monday argued that the alleged victims in the case were egged on to complain by media rivals, and their reliability and credibility were questionable. The trial continues. Explore more on these topics Alan Jones trial Alan Jones New South Wales news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story ABC apologises to Gina Rinehart over controversial Race Around the World episode 5h ago Alan Jones on Trial Introducing: Alan Jones on Trial podcast 7h ago News Corp subscriptions fall in Australia as company takes aim at ‘slimy’ AI slop 11h ago Pauline Hanson has knocked another brick out of our creaky political system. It’s not good for anybody 2d ago … … comments Alan Jones paid student athlete he is accused of indecently assaulting $110,000 over a decade, trial hears 2d ago Trump wants ‘fair treatment’ in fight over Labor’s levy on tech giants to pay for news, US trade group warns 2d ago Alan Jones argues ‘rivalry’ and ‘treachery’ but after decades wielding the sword of public opinion, he’s the one on trial 3d ago Teenager didn’t tell anyone Alan Jones allegedly kissed and touched him as he feared losing financial help, trial hears 3d ago Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)