Nigel Farage says he discussed politics return ahead of general election - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Farage says he discussed return to politics months before general election Image source, EPA/Shutterstock By Richard Wheeler Political reporter Published 3 August 2026 Nigel Farage has told the BBC he discussed the "potential liabilities" of returning to politics before the 2024 general election. It comes after The Sunday Times , external reported Farage had negotiated a deal in March and April 2024 with then-Reform leader Richard Tice to return to lead the party. Farage confirmed he spoke with Tice in spring 2024 to scope out what would happen to Reform's finances if he returned but said it "wasn't a deal, it wasn't an agreement", adding that talks came "quite some time after" he received a £5m gift from a billionaire donor. Labour said Farage's remarks had "blown a gaping hole" in his argument for not declaring the gift after becoming an MP in July 2024. Farage has repeatedly argued the £5m from British cryptocurrency investor Christopher Harborne was an "unconditional gift", was intended for his personal security, "wasn't political in any sense at all" and he was not an MP when he received it. Reform's opponents have said he should have declared it in the MPs' register of interests when he was elected to Parliament. The Parliamentary Standards Commissioner was investigating whether Farage broke the rules, but the process was suspended when he stood down as Clacton MP last month to force a by-election . Farage said he took this decision as the "people of Clacton should be the judges of my actions". The investigation will be resumed if Farage wins the by-election, which is taking place on 13 August. Farage left frontline politics in 2021 and embarked on a broadcasting career. In May 2024, Farage was serving as Reform's honorary president but announced he would not be standing as a candidate in the general election in July of that year. He reversed this position at the beginning of June and took over the leadership of the party. Appearing at a press conference on Monday, Farage was asked if he had negotiated a deal on what would happen to Reform's finances if he came back as leader - in light of the report in The Sunday Times. He replied: "I had no intention of returning to politics or as leader of Reform, but in the spring of that year I did talk to Richard Tice about what the liabilities would be if I was to come back to that position. "And you'd be a bit of a mug, wouldn't you, to walk into a job and not find out what the potential liabilities were, and they were substantial. "But without Richard, the party wouldn't have even survived, so that was useful for me to know. But it wasn't a deal, it wasn't an agreement, it was subject to if I came back." He added: "If you want clarification on this, that came quite some time after the gift, which is perhaps the important point." Bridget Phillipson, chair of the Labour Party, said: "Nigel Farage has blown a gaping hole in his excuse for why his secret £5m 'gift' from a crypto billionaire did not need to be declared." The Commons code of conduct states that new MPs "must register all their current financial interests, and any registrable benefits (other than earnings) received in the 12 months before their election within one month of their election". The rules say "purely personal gifts or benefits" from family or commercial loans would not normally have to be registered. The rules also say "both the possible motive of the giver and the use to which the gift is to be put should be considered", adding "if there is any doubt, the benefit should be registered". A full list of the candidates standing in the Clacton by-election can be found here . Sign up for our Politics Essential newsletter to read top political analysis, gain insight from across the UK and stay up to speed with the big moments. It'll be delivered straight to your inbox every weekday. Related topics Reform UK Nigel Farage The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:34 Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents. 00:00:34, play video Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents 1:05 What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident. 00:01:05, play video What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident 0:29 How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 00:00:29, play video How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 1:27 Are older and younger generations in conflict? 00:01:27, play video Are older and younger generations in conflict? 1:18 Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 00:01:18, play video Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 0:48 Model's photos used to catfish women. 00:00:48, play video Model's photos used to catfish women 1:29 The inventor who refused to take no for an answer. 00:01:29, play video The inventor who refused to take no for an answer 1:07 How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 00:01:07, play video How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 1:01 E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths. 00:01:01, play video E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths 1:07 NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England. 00:01:07, play video NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England 0:52 Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion. 00:00:52, play video Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion 0:59 Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation. 00:00:59, play video Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation 0:35 Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend. 00:00:35, play video Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend 1:25 Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings. 00:01:25, play video Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings 0:55 Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 00:00:55, play video Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 0:48 Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances. 00:00:48, play video Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances 1:16 GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview. 00:01:16, play video GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview 1:07 What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 00:01:07, play video What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 0:58 '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 00:00:58, play video '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 0:29 Where does salmonella get its name? 00:00:29, play video Where does salmonella get its name? Top stories Live . Rescue efforts enter fifth day on Nepal-Tibet border with more than 2,400 missing after flash flood 1277 viewing 1.3k viewing At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot Published 3 hours ago Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor Published 7 hours ago More to explore Dolly Parton's dad couldn't read - it inspired her to send books to millions of children Sweetcorn ice creams and pastries: The latest 'swavoury' trend taking over your feed How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works We helped create UK emergency alert system - but question how government is using it Hypermobility - the little-known 'bendy disease' that causes pain and fatigue Strong winds and thunderstorms kick off the bank holiday weekend 'I thought diet clubs weren't for men' Embroidery on display as town celebrates conqueror Royal Watch: Get the latest royal stories and analysis with Sean Coughlan’s weekly newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Low-key noughties sitcom starring Robert Webb and Paula Wilcox Keith Richards recalls how he wrote the iconic 'Satisfaction' An unlikely gang set out to catch a killer who shattered rural peace Did Emily ruin Paris? Most read 1 Rescue to continue overnight for 'in distress' vessel carrying five in the Channel 2 Sarah Ferguson expected back in the UK 'shortly', source says 3 Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor 4 I've been to Gamescom six times - here's what excited me this year 5 'Healey eyes banks and oil tax' and 'X Factor comeback' 6 Norway's new king remembers 'my dear father' in first speech 7 How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works 8 They fell in love - then had to check they weren't brother and sister 9 Man dies after train hits van on crossing 10 At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.