Reform UK pledges to jail bosses employing illegal workers - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Reform UK pledges to jail bosses employing illegal workers Image source, PA Media By Jennifer McKiernan Political reporter Published 6 August 2026, 00:37 BST Reform UK has pledged to imprison the bosses of companies employing illegal migrants and said it would fine larger firms 10 per cent of their global revenues. The party said its aim was to stop delivery and gig economy companies profiting from illegal workers "without consequences". Home affairs spokesperson Zia Yusuf said "young British people are being shut out of entry level jobs and our whole economy is being undermined". The Home Office said it was already increasing penalties for companies hiring illegal workers. A source within the department called some of Reform's proposals "empty posturing". Reform said that if it won the next general election, it would pass a law making chief executives and directors of large companies profiting from illegal workers personally and criminally liable. That would be regardless of their knowledge of workers' legal status. The party said this would be similar to the personal liability of senior managers for the financial misconduct of their firms under Financial Conduct Authority rules. Reform would also introduce a phone line for the public to report suspected illegal working or organised criminal activity, which police and other authorities, such as trading standards teams, would be required to follow up. Reports resulting in successful prosecutions would be rewarded with a share of any fines generated. Yusuf said the party "would introduce the toughest penalties anywhere in the world for illegal working". Car washes and vape shops can still sponsor skilled foreign workers despite visa changes Published 5 hours ago Council queries £45k fine for 'employing illegal worker' Published 12 June Crackdown on illegal working leads to surge in arrests Published 13 January Fines are already being imposed on organisations found to be in breach of immigration laws, with one council fined £45,000 for employing one illegal worker in June. A Home Office source said of Reform's announcement: "The Government is already doing much of this. The rest is just empty posturing." A spokesperson for the department added: "We are already closing the loopholes that allow illegal migrants to work in the UK by extending right to work checks to the gig economy and delivery sector. "Employers who break the law face severe consequences, including fines of up to £60,000 per illegal worker, business closures, licence revocations and prison sentences of up to five years." They added that since Labour came to power, Immigration Enforcement action has increased "to the highest level in British history, with illegal working arrests up by 83% and raids up by 77%." Sign up for our Politics Essential newsletter to read top political analysis, gain insight from across the UK and stay up to speed with the big moments. It'll be delivered straight to your inbox every weekday. Related topics Shabana Mahmood UK immigration The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:49 Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales. 00:00:49, play video Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales 0:59 The city closing down streets so children can play. 00:00:59, play video The city closing down streets so children can play 1:23 The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII. 00:01:23, play video The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII 0:37 Crispy butter beans with whipped feta. 00:00:37, play video Crispy butter beans with whipped feta 0:57 Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites. 00:00:57, play video Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens Top stories Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at Army teen college Published 5 hours ago Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns Published 3 hours ago Live . Fifa latest: Infantino remains president after tumultuous period 3514 viewing 3.5k viewing More to explore Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear in the office? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Rihanna is 'in the studio', says partner A$AP Rocky Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Families' anger at jailed funeral boss's apology letter Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Love shouldn't feel like fear How hydrated do you really need to be? Melvin Odoom on the MiniDiscs he can't throw away The origin story of the first Comic Con Most read 1 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 2 Meredith Kercher's sister criticises Amanda Knox comedy show 3 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at Army teen college 4 Why phones on loudspeaker may become just another noise 5 Meta becomes latest firm to say its AI hacked another company 6 Families' anger at jailed funeral boss's apology letter 7 Car washes and vape shops can still sponsor skilled foreign workers despite visa changes 8 Iran says deal with Oman on Strait of Hormuz is in final stages 9 The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon 10 Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear in the office? BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.