Top Democrat proposes killing tax breaks for overseas oil production Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Politics & Policy Top Democrat proposes killing tax breaks for overseas oil production Published Fri, Aug 7 2026 12:00 PM EDT Garrett Downs @in/garrettmdowns/ @_garrettdowns WATCH LIVE Key Points Sen. Martin Heinrich, D-N.M., will introduce a bill, shared exclusively with CNBC, to end tax breaks for U.S. oil and gas companies that operate overseas while the industry reaps massive profits as the war with Iran spikes oil prices. The bill comes days after President Donald Trump ripped major U.S. oil and gas producers for making "too much money" amid the conflict that has raised gasoline prices. Heinrich, the top Democrat on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said the bill would "help put American energy development on an even playing field with energy development that's happening in the Middle East or anywhere else." In this article CVX XOM Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT U.S. Sen. Martin Heinrich (D-NM) speaks to reporters after a roundtable on rising energy costs on Capitol Hill on March 17, 2026 in Washington, DC. Anna Moneymaker | Getty Images Sen. Martin Heinrich will introduce a bill, shared exclusively with CNBC, to end tax breaks for U.S. oil and gas companies that operate overseas while the industry reaps massive profits as the war with Iran spikes oil prices. The bill comes days after President Donald Trump ripped major U.S. oil and gas producers for making " too much money " amid the conflict that has raised gasoline prices, and warned that companies like ExxonMobil and Chevron are going to have to "give some of that back to the public, and they better cut the retail price, the consumer price." Trump has, at the same time, pushed U.S. oil and gas companies to invest in Venezuela after he ousted the country's former president, Nicolás Maduro. Heinrich, D-N.M., who is the top Democrat on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said the bill would "help put American energy development on an even playing field with energy development that's happening in the Middle East or anywhere else." "Oil majors shouldn't get a tax break for going overseas to produce energy, but that's essentially what our current tax policy does," he said. "At a time when oil majors are making billions in profits per quarter, they can afford to pay their fair share." According to Heinrich's office, the bill would eliminate preferential tax treatment for overseas oil and gas extraction income, shifting the tax code so overseas fossil fuel profits are treated the same as other foreign business income. It would also close tax code provisions that allow companies to generate additional foreign tax credits from shale oil and tar sands development by including them as combined foreign oil and gas income. Read more CNBC politics and policy coverage Khanna to introduce ‘Data Center Bill of Rights’ as fight over AI power plants heats up Kids Online Safety Act social media safety bill advances in Senate Trump admin refunds $100 billion in ‘liberation day’ tariffs The bill would also amend foreign tax credit rules to prevent oil and gas companies from misclassifying payments to foreign governments as taxes rather than royalties so they can reduce their U.S. tax liability, Heinrich's office said. Major oil and gas companies around the world posted monster second-quarter profits last week amid the Iran conflict's surge in crude prices. Chevron's net income spiked to $12 billion, a nearly 400% increase compared with $2.5 billion in the same period last year. Exxon, meanwhile, posted profit of $14.5 billion, more than doubling from about $7.1 billion in the same quarter last year. Gas prices in the U.S., meanwhile, were $4.06 per gallon on Thursday, according to AAA — a major source of voter discontent heading into November's midterm elections. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by