Susan Collins will oppose Blanche, a critical blow for Trump's AG pick Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Politics & Policy Sen. Susan Collins will oppose Blanche, a critical blow for Trump's AG pick Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 11:04 AM EDT Updated 5 Min Ago Garrett Downs @in/garrettmdowns/ @_garrettdowns WATCH LIVE Key Points Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, will vote against Todd Blanche's nomination to be attorney general, dealing a blow to President Donald Trump's pick for the nation's top law enforcement job ahead of a confirmation vote in the Senate. Blanche was approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee in a 12-10 vote earlier Tuesday, sending his nomination to the Senate floor for a confirmation vote. The votes come after Blanche, the current acting attorney general, struck a deal with Sens. John Cornyn, R-Texas, and Thom Tillis, R-N.C., to kill the controversial "anti-weaponization fund." Blanche will still need to receive 50 votes on the Senate floor to be confirmed. U.S. Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) speaks during a Senate Appropriations Committee hearing in Washington, D.C., U.S., July 21, 2026. Eric Lee | Reuters Sen. Susan Collins , R-Maine, will vote against Todd Blanche's nomination to be attorney general, dealing a blow to President Donald Trump 's pick for the nation's top law enforcement job ahead of a confirmation vote in the Senate. "While I believe Mr. Blanche is a capable lawyer, the Department of Justice has become increasingly political," Collins, who is facing a tough reelection fight, said in a statement. "Mr. Blanche has taken several actions that have further eroded the Department's independence, and that is the basis for my vote to oppose his confirmation." Collins listed several reasons for her "no" vote, including Blanche's role in a controversial settlement between Trump and the Internal Revenue Service that resulted in an audit shield for the president and his family and the now-canceled "anti-weaponization fund." Collins also noted Blanche "promised an anti-abortion organization that he would seek to prohibit the mailing of abortion medication to women nationwide." Blanche can only afford to lose two GOP votes to be confirmed, given Republicans' 53-47 majority and the extended medical absence of Sen. Mitch McConnell , R-Ky. Sens. Lisa Murkowski , R-Alaska, and Bill Cassidy , R-La., have yet to decide on Blanche's nomination — meaning the pair could sink him if they decide to join Collins in opposition. Blanche was approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee earlier Tuesday by a vote of 12-10, sending his nomination to the Senate floor for a confirmation vote. Acting Attorney General Todd Blanche gets sworn in at his confirmation hearing in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee on Capitol Hill July 15, 2026 in Washington, DC. Win Mcnamee | Getty Images The committee vote came after Blanche, the current acting attorney general, struck a deal with Sens. John Cornyn , R-Texas, and Thom Tillis , R-N.C., who said they are satisfied that the controversial " anti-weaponization fund " is dead. The pair of senators deadlocked the committee by refusing to vote for Blanche until he confirmed the program's end in writing, despite verbal assurances. Senate Judiciary Committee Democrats on Tuesday ahead of the vote on Blanche, said they are concerned the fund could still be revived. All of the committee's Democrats opposed Blanche's confirmation, while all the Republicans voted in favor. "This document is a sham," Sen. Richard Blumenthal , D-Conn., said, referring to files Blanche posted to social media that he said mark the end of the fund. "It is a sham and a fraud on the Congress." Read more CNBC politics coverage ChatGPT dominates early AI spending in Congress as lawmakers weigh regulation Trump slams Pirro after she moves to drop Reflecting Pool vandalism case Analysis: Markets heard a dovish Warsh. Fed chairman's words suggest a rate hike Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by