Trump denies US munitions shortage and said he'd seek to jail 'leakers' - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat World Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' Image source, Getty Images By Kayla Epstein and Bernd Debusmann , Reporting from Washington, DC Published 6 August 2026, 15:30 BST Updated 3 hours ago President Donald Trump has denied reports that the US is suffering a munitions shortage and vowed in a social media post to seek "long term jail sentences" for those suspected of leaking information. "The U.S. has massive amounts of 'munitions,' especially of certain types," Trump posted on Thursday morning. "Additionally, large amounts are being manufactured and shipped to the US as needed." Trump and the Pentagon face mounting questions about the state of the military's arsenal, with the war now in its sixth month and a peace deal remaining elusive. Iran responded to reports of shrinking US supplies by saying its locally produced weapons gave it the ability to respond to "any threat". As the US pauses the war with Iran, is Trump really running out of weapons? Published 27 July "Each day, the signs of the enemy's diminishing capabilities become more apparent," Defence Minister Majid Ibn-e-Reza posted on X. "But our Armed Forces - backed by the nation's defence industry - are fully equipped to respond to any threat." He added that "those who are now seeking to buy security and military superiority through imported systems will soon realise that Iran's indigenous technology is superior to any system in the region". After the US spent vast quantities of difficult-to-manufacture weapons during the combat operation known as Operation Epic Fury and the tit-for-tat strikes since, the Trump administration has sought to assure Americans that the country's missile stockpiles remain robust. CBS News, the BBC's US partner, reported the US has gone through much of its global stockpile of long-range precision missiles during the war, citing two unnamed sources with direct knowledge of the subject. Meanwhile, the Washington Post reported on Wednesday evening that Trump had confronted Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth last week over a possible weapons shortfall, also citing unnamed sources. The BBC has not confirmed the report. "The 'leakers' of these treasonous statements are being hunted down," Trump said in the post on Truth Social. "Long term jail sentences will be sought!" He directly addressed the Washington Post's story in a later post, saying: "I really believe their fake 'reporting' is treasonous!" "I am extremely happy with the job that Pete Hegseth is doing," he also posted. Precise information on US missile stocks remains classified. Since becoming secretary, Hegseth has sought to put in place strict controls limiting the information that reporters can gather from the Pentagon, as well. Using publicly available data, the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), a national security think tank, estimated that by the end of July, the US had between 759 and 827 Patriot missiles left - about a third of the 2,330 available before the conflict began. It also estimates the US has now used around 60% of terminal high altitude area defense (THAAD) missiles, which are deployed to intercept strikes, Mark Cancian, a retired Marine Corps colonel and senior adviser at CSIS, said on Wednesday. The US is facing demand for its weapons beyond the conflict with Iran, which could also put a strain on supplies. It has given Ukraine significant numbers of Patriot missiles since Russia invaded in 2022, but as US stocks shrink Cancian expects the Pentagon will hold onto them. At a cabinet meeting on Friday, Trump told reporters that granting Ukraine's recent request for additional Patriot missiles would be a "big step", but the two countries were "still talking about" it. Many modern weapons have long funding, order, production, and delivery timelines, making it hard to swiftly replace munitions once they are used. The administration has consistently stated the US has enough in its stockpile. Trump told the Wall Street Journal last month: "We have far more munitions than anyone in the world, and far more than we need." Hegseth, meanwhile, called reports of a stockpile shortage a "manufactured story" on a 14 June appearance on CBS' Face the Nation. But the administration has also indicated it is ramping up production, with Hegseth saying the US was working quickly to manufacture more weapons. Last month, he asked the US Senate for emergency funds totalling $87bn (£68bn) to pay service members and "rapidly replenish equipment and munitions." Follow the twists and turns of Trump's second term with North America correspondent Anthony Zurcher's weekly US Politics Unspun newsletter. Readers in the UK can sign up here. Those outside the UK can sign up here . Related topics United States Donald Trump Iran Ukraine More on this story Iran says deal with Oman on Strait of Hormuz is in final stages Published 20 hours ago UN rights chief alarmed by rise in Iran executions since March Published 1 day ago The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens 1:03 Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show. 00:01:03, play video Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show 0:58 Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:58 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns. 00:00:58, play video Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:19 England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations. 00:01:19, play video England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya Top stories Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption Published 20 minutes ago Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases Published 8 hours ago Uefa says boycott may still go ahead as FA withdraws Infantino support Published 5 hours ago More to explore The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Steve the featherless parrot gets his colour back Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives Why aren't more women getting into padel? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 Arrests in Thetford as disorder continues for third night 2 Artificial Intelligence used to design brand new viruses 3 Met Police boss admits mistake over plagiarism row 4 Amanda Knox defends Fringe comedy show after claims it will 'trivialise violence' 5 South Korea space agency shares Moon images after SpaceX rocket debris crash 6 Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order 7 Former duke chased by alleged stalker, court hears 8 Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption 9 Boxer charged with killing aid worker in Athens after his wife gave police 'key' details 10 Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.