Europe's soccer body says FIFA World Cup boycott is still on : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Europe's soccer body says FIFA World Cup boycott is still on A continued boycott of the World Cup poses a big threat to FIFA, keeping President Gianni Infantino under intense pressure to resign. Sports European nations say World Cup boycott is still on, keeping FIFA's Infantino in limbo August 6, 2026 1:11 PM ET By Rafael Nam FIFA President Gianni Infantino speaks at the Semafor World Economy 2026 in Washington, D.C., on April 15, 2026. Alex Wong/Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Alex Wong/Getty Images UEFA — the soccer body that represents 55 European nations — said on Thursday it would maintain its boycott of the World Cup, extending the pressure on FIFA President Gianni Infantino to resign over a failed plan to sell stakes in the tournament to private investors. Soccer Edition Spain is the 2026 World Cup champion, defeating Argentina for its 2nd title UEFA first announced the boycott last week after FIFA unveiled the plan , which would have involved creating a separate venture to handle all commercial operations of the World Cup and other tournaments — and then selling part of the company to financial firms. Infantino said the plan would help raise funds that could be distributed across the world — but instead found himself facing a global storm as soccer officials around the world revolted against a move that would have effectively privatized the World Cup. Sponsor Message But one of the biggest blows to Infantino came from within FIFA after a senior adviser quit while a senior executive issued a blistering statement to the Associated Press opposing the plan and saying it had been hatched by Infantino without any internal consultation. Although Infantino has since abandoned the plan — UEFA said its boycott would remain, saying it wanted a guarantee that FIFA would never again try to commercialize the World Cup in this manner. Sports Gianni Infantino gets internal support at crisis meeting to remain as FIFA president "UEFA's associations were very clear about the conditions attached to the non-participation in FIFA competitions. First, the proposals to sell off the major competitions had to be withdrawn and secondly, assurances have to be made that such attempts to disfigure the game in this way will never be made again. These conditions have not been met," UEFA said. In a separate statement , FIFPRO, the body representing soccer players around the world, also condemned FIFA for pursuing its plan and demanded a set of governance reforms. Infantino on the ropes The soccer body — which has a longstanding rivalry with FIFA over who gets to control soccer and its riches — also continued to call for Infantino's ouster. Infantino had previously said he would run for another term as FIFA president in elections scheduled for March. So far, he has not attracted any challengers. Sponsor Message UEFA also dismissed a statement from FIFA on Wednesday in which top officials agreed to close ranks and mend fences after Infantino apologized in an internal emergency meeting in Morocco. "Yesterday's announcement that some people employed by the FIFA President (and whose careers depend on his favour) agree with him changes nothing," UEFA said in its statement. Other countries have also continued to call for Infantino's ouster, including the English Football Association. Meanwhile, CONMEBOL, which represents South American soccer bodies, did not explicitly call for Infantino's resignation but also did not express its support. A European boycott — if sustained — would be a lethal threat to FIFA and Infantino. The Women's World Cup is set to take place in Brazil next year and now risks not having European nations, including reigning champion Spain. And the next men's World Cup is set to take place largely in Spain, Portugal and Morocco — with some games taking place in Argentina and other South American nations. FIFA World Cup FIFA World Cup Gianni Infantino UEFA Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after Trump's Terms Trump's third check-up at Walter Reed raises more questions about his health : Trump's Terms Politics Senate Homeland Security committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress News Frontier Airlines plane strikes and kills pedestrian Health A new flu vaccine geared to older people is coming soon Politics Celebrity culture is one thing. For TMZ, Congress is the new 'reality show' More Stories From NPR Sports Gianni Infantino gets internal support at crisis meeting to remain as FIFA president The Americas How Lionel Messi's legend is driving tourism in his hometown Sports U.S. men's national team coach Mauricio Pochettino will stay through 2030 World Cup Sports FIFA scraps controversial deal to sell stakes in World Cup to private investors Sports European soccer leaders to boycott the World Cup in an unprecedented step Sports FIFA has a new plan to raise billions of dollars: Selling stakes in the World Cup Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after Middle East conflict Iran aims to ban U.S. and Israeli ships from Strait of Hormuz and charge others a toll Politics Senate Homeland Security committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress Health A new flu vaccine geared to older people is coming soon Politics The park service says Trump's arch would obstruct historic sites. Could it be moved? Education Trump administration moves to deregulate Head Start, opening door for sweeping change NPR Editors' Picks Research News Sticky or slippery? Snails can change their slime to meet the moment Author Interviews Death is everywhere in the desert — it's where Claire Vaye Watkins feels most alive Global Health This country is the latest to hit the elusive 95/95/95 HIV target TV Reviews 'Furious' is an unforgettable thriller, not just a 'Black Widow' remake Politics Celebrity culture is one thing. For TMZ, Congress is the new 'reality show' The Ripple Effect The keepers of the Grateful Dead's history Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices