Trump again limits US birthright citizenship with new executive orders - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat US & Canada Trump again tries to limit US birthright citizenship with new executive orders Figure caption, Watch: Trump signs executive orders targeting birthright citizenship By Grace Eliza Goodwin Published 6 August 2026 Updated 9 hours ago Donald Trump is trying again to scale back birthright citizenship in the US, weeks after the Supreme Court shot down his previous attempt to eliminate the right. The president signed two executive orders on Thursday, including one that expands the existing definitions of non-citizens whose children are not eligible for birthright citizenship. The second order bans so-called birth tourism, the practice of pregnant mothers coming to the US to give birth so that their babies will be citizens. "This should have happened years ago, but we're taking care of it now," Trump said from the Oval Office, criticising the Supreme Court's rejection of his previous bid to end the 150-year-old policy. "My Administration has guarded against the risks posed by malign foreign actors who attempt to swindle American citizens by taking advantage of the generosity of our Nation," the first executive order says. That order prohibits the automatic citizenship of babies born in the United States to two non-citizen parents where one of the parents is: a member of a foreign terrorist group, a foreign government employee, has attempted to gain citizenship through fraudulent means, or is living in US territories where citizenship is not conferred by federal statute. Birthright citizenship for people born in US territories such as Puerto Rico is codified by federal statute. Trump and members of his administration have repeatedly railed against birth tourism, including accusing Russian and Chinese adversaries of taking advantage of birthright citizenship to infiltrate the US. While announcing the executive orders from the Oval Office on Thursday, Trump said that hundreds of thousands of babies have been born through birth tourism in the US. Image source, Bloomberg via Getty Images The Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research group, has said that the most expansive census-based estimate accounts for about 22,000 to 26,000 babies born in the US from birth tourism every year. Government data, according to the institute, showed that there were 9,600 births to mothers with foreign addresses in 2024. "The idea (is) that people come here pretending to be a tourist, pretending to be a visitor," Stephen Miller, homeland security advisor and White House deputy chief of staff for policy, said while standing beside the president on Thursday. "But the real reason they're here is to have a child, to make that child an automatic citizen, (to) leave our country and then have a US citizen child," he said, adding that those children then gain access to welfare benefits, the voting booth, and "all the other rights and privileges that belong solely to Americans". Miller said the president has the authority to ban birth tourism under a section of the Immigration and Nationality Act, which grants the president the power to set exceptions and limitations on who can enter into the country. On one of his first back days in office in 2025, Trump signed an executive order that tried to end birthright citizenship as guaranteed in the 14th Amendment to the US Constitution. A legal battle brought the case to the Supreme Court, which in June ruled that Trump's 2025 policies could not stand and birthright citizenship remained the law. The decision was a major blow to Trump's ongoing efforts to limit who can live, work, and become citizens in the US. The high court made "a bad decision, very unfair decision", Trump said from the Oval Office on Thursday while announcing the executive orders. "Our country suffers because of it, and we're ending in a different way." Gabriel Chin, a professor at the University of California Davis' School of Law, told the BBC that while parts of the order might hold up, other aspects "raise some serious constitutional questions". Chin said the president does have some power to restrict people coming into the US specifically for the purposes of having a child. "But once it does happen, once a child is born in the United States, I don't think the president has any power to decide that that child is not a citizen," he said, adding that the issue was settled in the Trump administration's recent loss in the Supreme Court. He called birth tourism a "drop in the bucket" against the millions of births in the US. "It's an unusual phenomenon," he said. Related topics US Supreme Court Citizenship US immigration Donald Trump United States More on this story US Supreme Court upholds birthright citizenship in blow to Trump Published 1 July Americans react to Supreme Court upholding birthright citizenship Published 30 June Trump 'immediately' asking US Supreme Court to reconsider birthright citizenship case Published 9 July The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:05 What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:05, play video What we know about the Thailand school shooting 1:11 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 00:01:11, play video 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 0:39 How much rain will end the drought? 00:00:39, play video How much rain will end the drought? 1:43 Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment. 00:01:43, play video Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment 0:24 Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol. 00:00:24, play video Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol 1:00 What is 'food noise'? 00:01:00, play video What is 'food noise'? 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:00 What do people want from Argos? 00:01:00, play video What do people want from Argos? 0:58 Meet Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 New hope for Afghan women's football team. 00:01:19, play video New hope for Afghan women's football team 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house hit in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house hit in strike Top stories Live . Several dead after Thai teen shoots grandparents and schoolteachers 9728 viewing 9.7k viewing Thai pupil describes harrowing moment teacher was shot in front of her Published 39 minutes ago Officer who led PC Harper investigation 'appalled' killers could be released early Published 1 hour ago More to explore Argos is getting a makeover - but can it attract new shoppers? Lauryn Hill and Wyclef ‘in an amazing place’ as fans hope for new Fugees album after 30 years How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man ‘We have nowhere to return to’: How Russia is seizing homes in occupied Ukraine Sudan's invisible children - born in war with no legal identity First OpenAI, now Meta - why do AI hacks keep happening? The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 England footballer Toney charged with assault in Soho 2 Further arrests in Thetford as disorder continues for third night 3 Officer who led PC Harper investigation 'appalled' killers could be released early 4 How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man 5 Trump again tries to limit US birthright citizenship with new executive orders 6 Meta fined $567m in largest child safety ruling against social media giant 7 'Tories to end social housing for foreigners' and 'Bottoms down' 8 Argos is getting a makeover - but can it attract new shoppers? 9 German airport drone-bomb: Could Russia be involved? 10 Weekly quiz: Ed Sheeran got in trouble with the DVLA over which make of classic car? BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.