Three lions die in Tokyo zoo as heatwave scorches East Asia | Climate News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up News | Climate Three lions die in Tokyo zoo as heatwave scorches East Asia A record-breaking heatwave stretching across East Asia is straining animals, health systems and people. Listen (3 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google Three-year-old female lion Mugi, one of three lions in Tama Zoological Park that died recently due to suspected heat-related illness, in Tokyo, Japan, in this handout photo taken on May 28, 2025 released by Tokyo Zoological Park Society, and obtained by Reuters on August 4, 2026 [Tokyo Zoological Park Society/Handout via Reuters] By AFP and Reuters Published On 4 Aug 2026 4 Aug 2026 Three lions at a Tokyo zoo have died from suspected heatstroke, as record-breaking temperatures in East Asia have prompted South Korea’s president to declare a national disaster. South Korean President Lee Jae Myung told officials at a cabinet meeting on Tuesday to ensure support for those worst affected by the heat and inspect power systems as air conditioning demand surges. Recommended Stories list of 3 items list 1 of 3 Why are the Washington wildfires so severe? list 2 of 3 Dangerous summers: How heatwaves and wildfires change life across Europe list 3 of 3 South Korea has hottest day on record amid extreme weather globally end of list The Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency said the death toll from the heatwave has risen to 19, including 13 people aged 80 or above. Since May 15, ⁠at least 2,025 people have suffered heat-related illnesses nationwide. “An even greater concern is that abnormal weather conditions make it highly likely that extreme weather will continue for a considerable period,” said Lee, who wants a major redesign of the disaster response system to cope with the hazardous conditions. South Korea’s heat record has been broken three times over the past week, with the latest set at 42.5 degrees Celsius (108.5 degrees Fahrenheit) in the city of Yangsan on Sunday, the highest measured in 122 years of weather observations, according to the Korea Meteorological Administration. The heat is not confined to South Korea. Across the border in North Korea, state media said heat advisories covering much of the country would stay in place through the week, as water parks in Pyongyang drew large crowds. Because North Korea does not have media freedom, the casualties there from the heatwave are unknown. Pedestrians stand under a shade shelter at Gangnam district in Seoul on August 4, 2026, as a scorching heatwave continues to grip South Korea. (AFP) Record heat across East Asia In Japan, nearly 18,600 people were taken to hospital for heatstroke between July 20 and 26, with 45 of them pronounced dead on arrival, according to the country’s fire and disaster management agency. Parts of the country have hit 40C in recent weeks, qualifying for the new designation “cruelly hot day”. Advertisement At Tama Zoological Park, Tokyo’s largest zoo, a three-year-old female lion called Mugi died last Tuesday, another called Ichigo died on Friday aged 11, and a third lioness called Luena died on Sunday aged 15. “According to our veterinarian, the cause of the deaths is suspected to be heatstroke,” a zoo spokeswoman said. “Even though lions are thought to be resistant to heat, zookeepers have been strengthening countermeasures to cope with Japan’s summer heat in recent years. Heat here comes with high humidity that is different from heat with dry air in Africa.” Eleven-year-old female lion Ichigo, one of three lions in Tama Zoological Park that died recently due to suspected heat-related illness, in Tokyo, Japan, in this handout photo taken on June 1, 2024 released by Tokyo Zoological Park Society, and obtained by Reuters on August 4, 2026 [Tokyo Zoological Park Society/Handout via Reuters] Scientists say climate change driven by human activity is making heatwaves and other extreme weather events more frequent, longer-lasting and more intense. In Europe, extreme heat and strong winds are causing wildfires and forcing evacuations in Greece, with Spain and France also on high alert for new blazes. Extreme heat was also recorded in the United States, increasing wildfire risks. The United Nations weather agency warned on Friday that a strong El Nino is expected to intensify, starting this month. It warned that the phenomenon is likely to increase above-normal temperatures globally and significantly shift rainfall patterns. El Nino is a naturally occurring periodic climate pattern in which warmer-than-usual waters in the Pacific Ocean disrupt global weather systems, typically intensifying heatwaves, droughts and storms in different parts of the world. Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network