Judge agrees to drop final case against Oath Keepers on Jan. 6 : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Judge agrees to drop final case against Oath Keepers on Jan. 6 A judge has granted the Justice Department's bid to drop a landmark case against leaders of the Oath Keepers, as former prosecutors warn about the dangers of denying the violence of Jan. 6. Law Judge reluctantly dismisses case against Oath Keepers militia group over Jan. 6 riot Updated August 5, 2026 1:41 PM ET Originally published August 5, 2026 1:14 PM ET Carrie Johnson Stewart Rhodes, founder of the far-right Oath Keepers militia group, attends a hearing with the House Select Subcommittee on January 6th in January 2026 in Washington, D.C. Heather Diehl/Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Heather Diehl/Getty Images A federal judge has reluctantly dismissed the seditious conspiracy case against the founder of the far-right Oath Keepers group and several other key members, after the Justice Department backed away from the landmark prosecution. U.S. District Judge Amit Mehta had sentenced Stewart Rhodes to 18 years in prison, calling him "an ongoing threat and peril to this country." Juries convicted Rhodes and five other Oath Keepers of attempting to overthrow the government using force, contributing to the violence and the chaos as rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol six years ago. But the Trump Justice Department moved to wipe away those convictions, and eventually to drop the case altogether. Sponsor Message The dismissal of the Oath Keepers case marks one of the final codas to efforts to hold people accountable for the violent siege on the Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021 by a mob of President Trump's supporters. Law Justice Department moves to toss conspiracy convictions for Jan. 6 rioters On his first day in office, the president pardoned nearly every defendant charged in connection with the Capitol riot, which Judge Mehta described as an assault on the peaceful transfer of power. "Today's epilogue diminishes the gravity of that day, denigrates the work of the prosecutors and law enforcement officers who secured these convictions, and excuses criminal acts that caused a centuries-long pillar of our democracy—the peaceful transfer of presidential power—to buckle," the judge wrote in an Aug. 4 order . In a social media post, James Lee Bright, a lawyer for Rhodes, congratulated the defendants. "Seditious Conspiracy should never have been charged," wrote Bright, who called the charge a "thought crime." Law Oath Keepers founder barred from D.C., U.S. Capitol unless judge signs off Trump has continued to champion the people who rioted at the Capitol and has said they should receive taxpayer compensation. His plan for a $1.776 billion "anti-weaponization fund" met with bipartisan resistance in Congress. The president said that fund seemed dead , but critics say the administration could find other ways to pay the rioters. The Oath Keepers case unraveled this week, just as three former federal prosecutors who handled the riot cases appeared on Capitol Hill Wednesday morning. Those lawyers urged the U.S. Senate not to advance Trump's judicial nominees who deny the violence that took place on Jan. 6 and refuse to answer who won the 2020 presidential election. Sponsor Message The White House defended its judicial nominees, saying anyone the president nominated was qualified and went through the White House's "rigorous vetting process." "Wherever there are judicial vacancies, President Trump will select highly qualified nominees with great respect for our Constitution and rule of law to be confirmed expeditiously," Lauren Bis, a White House spokeswoman, said. But former prosecutor Michael Romano said views about Jan. 6 should not be a political issue. "It is not something that members of either party should have trouble with," he said during a press conference organized by Senate Democrats on Wednesday. "It has only become an issue because Donald Trump insists people lie or not tell the truth about what happened that day." Politics Senate Judiciary Committee advances Blanche nomination, setting up a final vote Sen. Richard Blumenthal, a Democrat from Connecticut, criticized judicial nominees for waffling and dodging questions about whether Trump lost the election in 2020. "If a judicial nominee cannot answer that basic question, refuses to speak the truth to power now, there is no guarantee that they will be independent on the bench and provide real justice to the American people," Blumenthal said. The Republican-led Senate has confirmed nearly all of the president's picks for lifetime-tenured federal judgeships . Former prosecutor Brendan Ballou said it was "scary" to think about those jurists hearing future election disputes. "The danger that we face with these judicial nominees is that future court cases that will determine whether our democracy continues may be people who deny the reality of January 6th," Ballou said on Capitol Hill Wednesday. "Think about how dangerous it is." Justice Department Oath Keepers judicial nominees Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Health Black lung rates in Appalachia are high as the 1970s, with thousands of miners sick Investigations Police sue Trump as Jan. 6 rioters gloat over 'weaponization' fund National 12 dead after skydiving plane crashes in Missouri, authorities say Elections Progressives see biggest win yet in Michigan, while Trump flexes power over GOP Trump's Terms Trump's third check-up at Walter Reed raises more questions about his health : Trump's Terms Politics 'Homeland Security' has spawned political insecurity since DHS was born More Stories From NPR Politics Ripple effects: Three people have Reflecting Pool charges dropped after Hearn request Understanding AI For those with criminal records, AI is breaking down barriers to employment Law She protested ICE raids. Then agents showed up at her door Law Trump says he 'may' pull Blanche AG nomination temporarily Law Alien Terrorist Removal Court holds its first-ever hearing after 30 years Immigration The Trump administration has undercut the U.S. asylum program. These 3 charts show how Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Elections Progressives see biggest win yet in Michigan, while Trump flexes power over GOP Health Black lung rates in Appalachia are high as the 1970s, with thousands of miners sick Health Dr. Erica Schwartz confirmed as CDC director, filling a leadership vacuum The Ripple Effect How Deadheads became rock and roll's greatest renewable resource National Arson suspect makes first court appearance as Spokane wildfires rage on It's Been a Minute The questionable new ways to surveil your friends NPR Editors' Picks Asia Ousted Bangladeshi leader vows to return from exile despite facing a death sentence World Cafe How Midwest doldrums became a gift for Kevin Morby Asia Pakistan's ruling party leads in Kashmir vote despite boycott call by banned group Asia Under China's new 'unity' law, Tibetans fight to preserve language and culture Politics Progressive Abdul El-Sayed wins Michigan's Democratic primary for Senate Europe A Russian barrage in Ukraine's capital kills 17 as air defenses fall short Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices