Stephen Bear jailed for Georgia Harrison restraining order breach - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions Essex Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order Image source, PA Media Image caption, Stephen Bear, pictured arriving at court on Thursday, was handed another prison sentence By Laura Foster at Chelmsford Crown Court Published 6 August 2026, 15:16 BST Updated 5 hours ago Reality TV contestant Stephen Bear is back in prison after admitting breaching a restraining order that banned him from posting online about ex-partner Georgia Harrison. The order was imposed when Bear was jailed in 2023 after he filmed and shared a video of the pair having sex on OnlyFans and WhatsApp without Harrison's knowledge. The 36-year-old was told not to post or incite comments on social media about that case or Harrison but did so multiple times in 2025 while she was pregnant. In a statement read to Chelmsford Crown Court, the Love Island star and campaigner said Bear's online presence left her "feeling petrified" and she feared for her safety. He was jailed for 16 months. Image source, Essex Police Image caption, A new photograph of Bear was released by Essex Police following sentencing Bear, of Walthamstow, east London, admitted the charge of harassment – breaching of a restraining order, at a previous hearing in June. Judge Christopher Morgan, who presided over the original trial in 2023, said Bear's posts and videos in 2025 were "to ensure the maximum harm [was] caused to Georgia Harrison". "You knew all of that was untrue, and yet you posted it," he said. "You left Miss Harrison, I'm afraid, at the mercy of any individual who had aligned themselves with your lies." In addition to the prison sentence, the judge extended the restraining order to stop Bear from contacting Harrison's mother and her friend, which remains in place until a new order is imposed. Image source, PA Media Image caption, Georgia Harrison, pictured at the original hearing in 2023, submitted a statement to Thursday's sentencing in Chelmsford After serving half his original sentence, Bear was released from prison, but between 1 March 2025 and 21 July 2025 began posting on Instagram, TikTok, X, YouTube and Facebook about the case and Harrison. The court heard these were "consistently posted messages of the most abhorrent and harmful type". Addressing Bear, the judge said: "What you did in that three to four-month period is simply victim-blaming." Harrison did not attend court, but the prosecution read out a statement in which she described feeling isolated, exposed and unsafe, and asked for the restraining order to be extended. She said the significant stress had made her worry about her unborn child and caused her to "spiral" on some occasions. "I shut him out of my mind for a long time and it's not fair that he's managed to crawl his way back in," she said. Bear arrived for Thursday's sentencing with his wife, who is eight months pregnant. As he walked in to court, he refused to answer questions but gave a thumbs-up and said: "Wish me luck guys. See you soon, hopefully." As his barrister spoke about why there should be a reduced sentence, Bear appeared to briefly cry. He shook his head as he was taken away to begin another prison term. Image source, PA Media Image caption, Stephen Bear arrived at court with his pregnant wife Miami Senior crown prosecutor Andrew Young said Bear "used his platforms to amplify abuse and encourage others to target" Harrison. The Crown Prosecution Service said Bear had looked to cast doubt on his convictions, including by alleging Harrison and her mother had conspired to pervert the course of justice. He also created an online petition seeking support for a retrial. Young added: "No woman should be made to live in fear because someone refuses to accept the restrictions placed on them by a court." In a separate statement released through Essex Police following sentencing, Harrison said she was grateful to the force because it "took me seriously when so many women in my position are overlooked". "They treated this as the serious crime it is – not a celebrity story. It is a real offence against a real person," she said. "They built the case properly, they stayed with it, and when the order was breached, they acted instead of shrugging. From the messages I get every day, I know how rare that still is. "If every force treated this the way Essex Police did, thousands of women would feel safer today." Related topics Essex Chelmsford More on this story Stephen Bear jailed for sharing sex video online Published 3 March 2023 Related internet links HM Courts Service From other local news sites Popular south Essex pub faces licence review over anti-social behaviour claims External Thurrock Gazette Fully inclusive festival to raise funds for young boy facing rare condition External East London & West Essex Guardian Series When will hosepipe bans end in Essex? Here's the latest updates from water firms External Basildon Evening Echo Man denies cannabis production after police raid in Cold Norton External Maldon & Burnham Standard Removals firm issues statement after people 'seen fleeing from lorry' in layby External Maldon & Burnham Standard Updated: Six-month-old puppy FOUND after early hours Essex break-in appeal External Clacton, Frinton & Walton Gazette Information about BBC links to other news sites The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens 1:03 Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show. 00:01:03, play video Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show 0:58 Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:58 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns. 00:00:58, play video Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:19 England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations. 00:01:19, play video England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya Top stories Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption Published 21 minutes ago Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases Published 8 hours ago Uefa says boycott may still go ahead as FA withdraws Infantino support Published 5 hours ago More to explore The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Steve the featherless parrot gets his colour back Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives Why aren't more women getting into padel? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 Arrests in Thetford as disorder continues for third night 2 Artificial Intelligence used to design brand new viruses 3 Met Police boss admits mistake over plagiarism row 4 Amanda Knox defends Fringe comedy show after claims it will 'trivialise violence' 5 South Korea space agency shares Moon images after SpaceX rocket debris crash 6 Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order 7 Former duke chased by alleged stalker, court hears 8 Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption 9 Boxer charged with killing aid worker in Athens after his wife gave police 'key' details 10 Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.