France hits out at Reform UK plan to return migrants using Royal Navy - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat France hits out at Reform UK plan to return migrants using Navy Image source, PA Media By Paul Seddon , Political reporter and Tamara Kovacevic , BBC Verify Published 3 August 2026 France has hit out at a Reform UK plan to return migrant boats using the Navy, saying the proposals would violate its sovereignty and breach international law. Nigel Farage's party announced that if it was in power it would intercept boats crossing the English Channel and return migrants to French ports, even if France disagreed. Opposition parties branded the plan unworkable, while a Labour minister said it would lead to "a lot of time arguing with France" instead of "actually getting to grips with the problem". Responding to the French government, a Reform spokesperson said: "We will always stand up for British interests and protect our people, whether Emmanuel Macron likes it or not." The spokesperson added: "Humanitarian missions do not violate maritime or international law." Under the plans, which Reform said it would bring in if it entered government after the next election, military-crewed inflatable boats deployed from 10 Navy patrol vessels would be used to "come alongside" migrant boats crossing the English Channel. Border Force officers and police stationed onboard would be tasked with arresting people in the boats, and they would then be returned to France or Belgium by Navy personnel or Marines. The party said returns operations would be conducted by military personnel with Border Force officers on hand in case of "non-compliance", with a Bay Class landing ship providing "detention capacity at sea" for up to 700 people. Speaking at a news conference on Monday, Reform's home affairs spokesman Zia Yusuf said the party would aim to get agreement to disembark arrested migrants at French ports. He added: "If the Elysee Palace refuses, make no mistake - His Majesty's Royal Marines will disembark them safely on the very shore they left that morning". Speaking alongside him, Farage played down the prospect of a diplomatic confrontation with the French, claiming that attitudes in France towards the idea were "softening". But in a statement issued later on Monday, the French interior ministry said: "This would constitute a violation of French sovereignty, as well as a violation of the law of the sea and international law." A spokesperson for the department added that measures agreed with the UK, as well as "operations deployed at the local level", had already led to a reduction in crossings so far this year compared to the same period in 2025. Click to expand Tap the questions below How many people cross the English Channel in small boats? Between 1 January and 3 August 2026, a total of 14,561 people crossed the English Channel by small boat from France. This was down by 43% on the same period the previous year. These crossings have become the most common way for people to be detected entering the UK illegally since 2020. Nearly all those who arrive by small boat claim asylum. Under international law, this means they are allowed to stay in the country while their asylum application is considered. Small boat arrivals made up 42% of asylum applications between April 2025 to March 2026. Boats that arrived in the UK from 4 August 2025 to 3 August 2026 carried an average of 67 people. This has more than doubled since 2021. Experts say overcrowding in boats makes crossings riskier . At least 84 people died while attempting to cross the Channel in 2024, according to the United Nations (UN). When looking at the scale of small boats crossings, the number of these arrivals is about 5% of the size of total immigration into the UK from January 2025 to December 2025. The government has pledged to “smash the gangs” behind these crossings in order to reduce the numbers. Who is arriving in the UK on small boats? People from Eritrea accounted for 18% of all arrivals from April 2025 to March 2026. In the latest figures covering January 2025 to December 2025, at least 2,000 people who arrived by small boat were found to be potential victims of human trafficking or other forms of modern slavery, according to the Home Office. How else do people stay in the UK without permission? Another 4,535 people were detected entering the UK without permission via other methods including hiding in vehicles, travelling on ferries or through airports from April 2025 to March 2026. This was down by 22% on the same period the previous year. There are also individuals who arrive legally, for example via a work or study visa, and then overstay their limit. The total number of people who live in the UK illegally after arriving legally is not known. See more key stats on hotels, small boats and asylum In a policy document, the party argued the plan would be legal under international law because it would be protecting the lives of migrants in dangerous boats. It cited the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), which talks of a duty on states to "render assistance to any person found at sea in danger of being lost". Farage said he was confident his party's policy of "securely picking people up and safely taking them back to France" would fall within "other conventions of international law". Yusuf accepted the plan could trigger a "diplomatic argument" with France, but insisted it had a "commitment under international law" to process migrants. Andrew Serdy, an expert on the public international law of the sea at the University of Southampton, argued Reform's proposals "would require the agreement of France, which is a bold assumption to make, as there is no reason to expect it to agree." James Turner KC, a lawyer at Quadrant Chambers with expertise in maritime issues, told BBC Verify that UNCLOS gave states rights to prevent infringement of immigration laws in a "contiguous zone" up to 24 nautical miles from their coasts. However, he added this did not entitle a country to "collect asylum seekers in its contiguous zone - or anywhere else - and take them back to the state they set off from". 'Model is working' More than 2,000 migrants have arrived in the UK on small boats since Andy Burnham became prime minister two weeks ago, and 326 people crossed the English Channel on Saturday. Home Office figures show crossings so far this year are down around 43% compared to the same period in 2025. The number of small boats crossing the Channel have been on an overall downward trend since it peaked in 2022, Home Office figures show. Speaking earlier, Energy Secretary Miatta Fahnbulleh said the Labour government's push for greater action against smuggling gangs was a "model that is working". She added that she did not believe Reform's plan would work, citing the involvement of the Navy as an example of "gimmicky" ideas explored by the previous Conservative government. "You'd spend a lot of time arguing with France, and not enough time actually getting to grips with the problem," she added. The prime minister visited Dover at the weekend, where he said the government was "changing the whole approach" to small boats, as the numbers of enforcement officers tackling people-smuggling gangs doubled on both sides of the Channel. According to the Home Office, the number of National Crime Agency (NCA) officers tackling smuggling gangs facilitating small boat crossings had risen to almost 800 from 376 at the start of 2025. Conservative shadow home secretary Chris Philp said Reform's plan was not "credible", adding: "They can't answer the question how they would disembark immigrants back in France if the French don't agree". "Reform's policy I am afraid as usual is on the back of a fag packet". Related topics Immigration UK immigration English Channel Reform UK More on this story Burnham pledges to be 'relentless' in curbing small boat crossings Published 6 days ago Track UK's latest migration numbers - net migration, visas, asylum and small boats Published 5 days ago The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:51 Who made Zendaya's jaw drop? 00:00:51, play video Who made Zendaya's jaw drop? 0:40 Maradona's 'Hand of God' football to go under the hammer. 00:00:40, play video Maradona's 'Hand of God' football to go under the hammer 0:38 Wildfire raging in Canada's British Columbia. 00:00:38, play video Wildfire raging in Canada's British Columbia 3:23 What happened to the internet? 00:03:23, play video What happened to the internet? 1:02 Child among three killed in Russian missile attacks near Kyiv. 00:01:02, play video Child among three killed in Russian missile attacks near Kyiv 0:28 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update. 00:00:28, play video 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update 0:59 Melvin Odoom hears his student radio MiniDisc. 00:00:59, play video Melvin Odoom hears his student radio MiniDisc 0:54 If the Inbetweeners were Teletubbies! 00:00:54, play video If the Inbetweeners were Teletubbies! 0:34 Timelapse shows mass balloon ascent in Bristol. 00:00:34, play video Timelapse shows mass balloon ascent in Bristol 1:17 The tech that could map every tree on earth. 00:01:17, play video The tech that could map every tree on earth 1:20 Jackie Kennedy's White House renovation and televised tour. 00:01:20, play video Jackie Kennedy's White House renovation and televised tour 0:59 Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 00:00:59, play video Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 1:07 Riding England's longest zip wire. 00:01:07, play video Riding England's longest zip wire 0:31 The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 00:00:31, play video The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 1:21 How many different cubes can you make? 00:01:21, play video How many different cubes can you make? 2:01 Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape. 00:02:01, play video Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape 1:02 Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter. 00:01:02, play video Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter Top stories Suspected crime boss Daniel Kinahan appears in court after extradition Published 4 hours ago How Kinahan's hearing unfolded inside the courtroom in Dublin Published 3 hours ago Burnham brings forward ban on 'subscription traps' to ease cost of living Published 2 hours ago More to explore Zendaya saw me on the red carpet and her jaw dropped - I'm still in shock Australia is the planet's extinction hotspot, but one animal offers a glimmer of hope How weight-loss medication is changing relationships with alcohol Parents fear being left behind in screening for rare condition after Jesy Nelson campaign Stray cats showing up at raves, gigs and pubs now have own merchandise What is clearing and what do I need to know ahead of results day? The 101-year-old who created a dolls' house museum with her childhood toys Setting an alarm or keeping their own phones off - how do parents tackle summer screen time? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC With great power comes great responsibility She's not a bad girl anymore, wink wink wink wink Can a test tell you what's living inside your gut? How much discipline is too much in school? Most read 1 Burnham brings forward ban on 'subscription traps' to ease cost of living 2 You could be missing out on £150 off your energy bill - here's how to check 3 'New prisons outrage' and 'Days of danger' 4 Suspected crime boss Daniel Kinahan appears in court after extradition 5 Evidence that South African special forces murdered top detective shared with BBC 6 Harry Potter fans force diversion of UK-Ireland power link to avoid 'Dobby's grave' 7 Could your tattoo stop you from getting a job? 8 Ancient Roman shipwreck discovered off Sicily coast 9 How much parents could save from September's new school uniform rules 10 'Spectacular' Game of Thrones stage spin-off opens at home of Shakespeare BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.