Inherited home: What to know before selling, renting or keeping it Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Budgeting & Saving Career Success Home Ownership Insurance Spending & Credit Retirement planning College Planning Surveys Your Money Money 101 newsletter Taxes Events Smarter by Make It CNBC Global Financial Wellness Advisory Board Your Money Inheriting a home can leave siblings with financial headaches — how to avoid costly mistakes Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 8:35 AM EDT Sharon Epperson @/in/sharoneppersoncnbc Stephanie Dhue @/stephanie-dhue/ @StephanieDhue WATCH LIVE Key Points Inherited homes made up nearly 9% of all U.S. single-family residential and rural property transfers last year, a record high, according to real estate data provider Cotality. Family members often grapple with financial and emotional considerations in handling an inherited property. Financial advisors say taxes, insurance, maintenance and repairs should be considered in decision-making. watch now VIDEO 5:30 05:30 The great wealth transfer: Here's what families need to know Squawk Box A version of this article first appeared in CNBC's Money 101 newsletter with Sharon Epperson, an eight-week financial education series with special monthly editions. Sign up to receive the newsletters, straight to your inbox. They're also available in Spanish . When Ashton and Adison Lawrence inherited their grandmother's South Carolina home earlier this summer, the brothers knew they weren't just inheriting a piece of real estate. They were inheriting a major financial responsibility. "You're dealing with both the grief but also the management and some decision-making on what you'd like to do with the property," said Adison, 34, a senior manager at an advertising sales and media business in Raleigh, North Carolina. When siblings inherit a home together, they often have to decide whether to sell, rent or keep it while covering taxes, insurance, maintenance and repairs. Ashton and Adison Lawrence with their grandmother. Courtesy: Ashton Lawrence "With this being so recent, we actually haven't had a final decision on what we want to do with it — whether it's selling it, whether it's trying to use it as a rental property," said Ashton, 39, a certified financial planner and senior wealth advisor at Mariner in Greenville, South Carolina. "But [we're] keeping that communication open for how we want to proceed." Family property key asset in great wealth transfer Tens of trillions of dollars are expected to change hands between generations in the next couple of decades in what is known as the great wealth transfer , as baby boomers and members of the silent generation pass away and leave their homes and other assets to their heirs. Estimates suggest that trillions of dollars will flow to heirs during that time. In an analysis published in July, Visa said baby boomers will leave $36 trillion to younger generations over the next 20 years. Cerulli Associates, a consulting and market research firm, estimates that older generations will leave a much larger sum — more than $100 trillion — to heirs through 2048. The gap in these estimates is due in large part to the scope of the generations leaving and receiving assets. The Visa report focused only on baby boomers and their heirs, whereas Cerulli includes all generations. Also, Visa's chief economist Wayne Best told CNBC that his firm's analysis excluded the wealth of the wealthiest 1%, estimated at $28 trillion. Rising home values have made real estate an increasingly important part of that wealth shift. Inherited homes accounted for a record 8.85% of all U.S. single-family residential and rural property transfers in 2025, according to data shared with CNBC from real estate data provider Cotality. A real estate sign outside of a house for sale in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, April 12, 2026. Al Drago | Getty Images For many families, the home is the largest asset in an estate and often carries the greatest emotional weight, according to financial advisors. Without clear instructions, enough cash and honest conversations, heirs can inherit difficult decisions and unexpected bills along with the memories, they said. "It is [like] managing a business," said Lazetta Rainey Braxton, a certified financial planner and member of the CNBC Financial Advisor Council . "You have to be present to know what the home needs, and you have to have the cash flow to take care of it." Siblings inheriting property together may have fundamentally different goals. One may want to keep the home as a rental to help meet cash-flow needs, while another may prefer a lump-sum payment from the sale. Even with his professional expertise and years of conversations with his grandmother about her wishes, Ashton, the executor of her estate, said deciding what to do with the house isn't simply a financial calculation. "There's two answers," he said. "One, the mathematical, the logical type of approach, and then there's the emotional piece." "Regardless of whatever the house might yield to us personally, there's an emotional attachment to the actual property, and that'll be something we weigh along with the financial pieces," he said. When memories and money collide Braxton, founder and managing principal of The Real Wealth Coterie, said she has seen firsthand how those decisions can become complicated. After her grandparents died, her father and his three siblings inherited the family home. Her father hoped to buy out his siblings, who lived in different parts of the country and weren't interested in keeping the property. But family members couldn't reach a decision quickly enough. "My dad had always expressed that he wanted to buy out the siblings," she said. "That conversation took some time. And the time that it took, we actually had to have the home demolished." The Rainey family home being demolished. Courtesy: The Rainey Family The story illustrates a reality many heirs don't anticipate: The costs of owning a home don't stop when the owner dies. Property taxes, insurance, maintenance and repairs continue while siblings work through decisions that can take months — or even years. "The home is an asset, and a lot of people want to put emotional ties to it," Braxton said. "It's a large asset that needs a conversation around it." Tax timing can shape when heirs sell watch now VIDEO 3:55 03:55 Is renting better than buying in the U.S.? The Next Dream Another key financial consideration is when to sell the home. Under federal tax law, when a homeowner dies, the inherited home's cost basis resets to fair market value on the date of death. Cost basis is the property's value for tax purposes — the starting point used to calculate a taxable gain or loss when the property is sold. Estate planning attorneys typically advise heirs to have the home appraised promptly after the owner's passing. Any appreciation after the date of death is subject to capital gains tax, which is the tax owed on profits from a financial asset, such as real estate or stocks. Families that sell near fair market value can minimize capital gains tax, advisors say. Don't let emotions delay decisions indefinitely A residential real estate sign points to a home that has been sold in Encinitas, California, July 14, 2026. Mike Blake | Reuters Financial advisors say there's no universal answer to whether siblings should sell, rent or keep an inherited home. Instead, they recommend discussing expectations with the property owner well before they die and a home becomes part of an estate. Creating a decision-making process among siblings or close family members is also a good idea. For clients who want to preserve family harmony, Braxton often advises the property owner to consult with an estate planning attorney to create appropriate documents, such as a will and/or a trust, to avoid the public probate court process. Transferring the property's title to a trust through a properly prepared and recorded deed is another critical step, estate planning attorneys say. "If your assets are not titled in the name of the trust, the trust isn't worth the paper it's written on," said Wayne Hassay, an attorney and managing partner at Maguire Schneider Hassay in Columbus, Ohio. "You want that house in the trust so that that house passes outside of probate, and pursuant to the terms and conditions that you decided." Braxton also recommends building a timeline into the estate plan. "Have a clause that says if we haven't decided in six months or a year, then that gives the trustee the right to sell the property," she said, adding that delaying decision-making could postpone necessary maintenance and negatively impact the property's value. "Sometimes you kind of have to be forced to make a decision," she said, "and having the conversation early helps." More from Your Money: Here's a look at more stories on how to manage, grow and protect your money for the years ahead. Millions of people with disabilities may be missing out on this little-known savings tool You can't 'borrow your way out of debt,' expert says, but more people are trying K-shaped economy looks like 'jaws of a crocodile,' economist says: Here's why Don't wait for Trump's 10% cap, Fed cuts to get a better credit card interest rate What Trump's 1-year, 10% credit card interest rate cap means for your money "Competing interests can strain even close relationships," said Mitchell Kraus, a CFP and co-founder of Capital Intelligence Associates in Santa Monica, California. "The single best piece of advice I give families is to have this conversation before the parents pass away." Ashton Lawrence offers that advice to clients as well. He said he now knows from experience this valuable lesson: The most important conversations about the family home need to happen before anyone inherits it. SIGN UP: Money 101 is an eight-week learning course on financial freedom, delivered weekly to your inbox. Sign up here. It is also available in Spanish. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. More In Your Money EV prices aren't following the 'law of used cars,' analyst says — what it means for buyers and sellers Greg Iacurci Does the 4% retirement rule still work? New research points to another strategy to maximize income Lorie Konish Fidelity says 2026 retirees may spend $185,500 on healthcare. One category may push those costs higher Lorie Konish Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by