Fed approves UBS acquisition of Credit Suisse’s US subsidiaries | Banking Dive Skip to main content CONTINUE TO SITE ➞ Don't miss tomorrow's banking industry news Let Banking Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox. Daily Dive M-F Fintech Weekly Every Wednesday By signing up to receive our newsletter, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . You can unsubscribe at anytime. Informa TechTarget | CFO Dive Payments Dive Explore our brands An Informa TechTarget Publication Deep Dive Opinion Library Events Press Releases Topics Sign up Search Sign up Search People also ask Loading questions... Commercial Retail Credit Unions Payments Regulations & Policy Technology Fintech An article from Fed approves UBS acquisition of Credit Suisse’s US subsidiaries UBS must submit an implementation plan within three months of the merger’s closing to address the structure, integration and business delineations of the combined organization, the central bank said. Published April 17, 2023 Rajashree Chakravarty Reporter Share Copy link Email LinkedIn X/Twitter Facebook Print License Add us on Google NEW YORK - AUGUST 19: People enter and leave the building of Swiss Bank UBS in Midtown Manhattan August 19, 2009 in New York City. (Photo by Chris Hondros/Getty Images) Chris Hondros via Getty Images The Federal Reserve approved UBS’s application to acquire the U.S. subsidiaries of Credit Suisse Group, the central bank announced Friday . UBS has agreed to provide the board with an implementation plan in relation to the acquisition of Credit Suisse’s New York City-based holding company. The plan, which will be updated quarterly, is intended to consider the combining of the U.S. business and operations of UBS and Credit Suisse while it will also “address UBS's obligations to comply with more stringent enhanced prudential standards, including liquidity standards”, the Fed said in a statement. UBS had requested the Fed’s approval for the acquisition March 22 — just three days after the bank combination went public. UBS will acquire Credit Suisse’s American business, including investment banking, private banking, corporate debt underwriting and asset management. UBS’s U.S. operation will be boosted after the consolidation is complete and upgraded from Category II to Category III — a part of the Fed’s regulatory design, the Fed said. Europe’s third-largest bank will have three months to come up with the implementation plan, while keeping in mind how it aims to adapt to the new regulatory and supervisory standards with the new categorization. It will also need to outline the structural changes it plans to implement in its U.S. operation, such as branch closing, consolidation or maintenance, the statement said. Until the consolidation process is complete, UBS has to maintain the two holding companies as separate and treat them accordingly, to ensure that all regulatory requirements are met, the Fed noted. The U.S. central bank requires to conduct a review of bank mergers when a bank with more than $250 billion in assets wants to buy any voting shares of a company with $10 billion or more in assets, according to Reuters . UBS Americas Holding, the U.S. subsidiary of UBS, has roughly $202 billion in assets under management, making it the nation’s 22nd-largest bank holding company, according to the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council. Following the approval, UBS can retain the assets it received from Credit Suisse Holdings USA under a separate holding company for around a year. But it needs to be consolidated thereafter, the statement highlighted. The Credit Suisse assets, which UBS will acquire as part of the lender’s U.S. subsidiaries, account for over $57 billion, according to the FFIEC. The $3.25 billion Swiss government-orchestrated combination of the two banks last month stood as a bid to rescue Credit Suisse from potential collapse. However, the Swiss parliamentary last week voted against state guarantees for UBS’s bid for Credit Suisse. The government has argued the state’s $122 billion in guarantees in UBS’s proposed acquisition of its rival bank would be binding, irrespective of the outcome of the vote, Bloomberg reported . Add us on Google Share Copy link Email LinkedIn X/Twitter Facebook Print License Filed Under: Commercial, Regulations & Policy Banking Dive news delivered to your inbox Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Email: Select Newsletter: Daily Dive M-F Select Newsletter: Fintech Weekly Every Wednesday Select user consent: By signing up to receive our newsletter, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . You can unsubscribe at anytime. Sign up A valid email address is required. Please select at least one newsletter. Editors' picks Caitlin Mullen/Banking Dive Valley Bank exec: AI is changing build-versus-buy question The New Jersey-based lender is using tiered employee access to control AI costs while pursuing internal efficiencies and relationship-building use cases, its chief operating officer said. By Caitlin Mullen • July 10, 2026 Getty Images How Alaska’s Credit Union 1 serves ‘banking tundras’ CEO Mark Burgess discusses the challenges of serving disparate, isolated communities – from transporting teller machines by plane to using remote capabilities to capture loan signatures. By Caitlin Mullen • May 15, 2026 Keep up with the story. Subscribe to the Banking Dive free daily newsletter Email: Select Newsletter: Daily Dive M-F Select Newsletter: Fintech Weekly Every Wednesday Select user consent: By signing up to receive our newsletter, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . You can unsubscribe at anytime. Sign up A valid email address is required. Please select at least one newsletter. Get the free newsletter Subscribe to Banking Dive for top news, trends & analysis Email: Select Newsletter: Daily Dive M-F Select Newsletter: Fintech Weekly Every Wednesday Select user consent: By signing up to receive our newsletter, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . You can unsubscribe at anytime. Sign up A valid email address is required. Please select at least one newsletter. Take your knowledge further with Sign up for the free newsletter. Interested? Explore more of what has to offer. One-click newsletter signup You're all set Thanks for signing up! Please keep an eye out for a confirmation email from [email protected] To ensure we make it into your inbox regularly, add us to your allow list, mark us as a safe sender, or add us to your address book. Check out more from Most Popular Mike Lyons begins his Truist era SVB ex-parent not entitled to $1.7B from FDIC Wells, BofA, Citi back upcoming stablecoin U.S. Bank expands business banking roster Library resources Trendline The growing use of AI in banking Supported by Glia Playbook The Keys to Modern Banking Delivery: CRM, MCP, and AI Custom content for Perficient & Salesforce Infographic How To Choose AI that Coordinates the Banking Experience Custom content for Genesys View all Company Announcements View all | Post a press release What We're Reading Bloomberg Bank of America Vice President Killed in Manhattan Stabbing American Banker Why JPMorgan Chase is deploying robots in its lockbox Financial Times Wall Street banks push Big Law to cut fees because of AI View all Events View all | Promote an event Industry Intel Reclaim phone channels from impersonators & carrier algorithms Webinar - on demand • Provided by Bandwidth How IT in Financial Services Can Stay Competitive in Economic Uncertainty Webinar - on demand • Provided by Riverbed Banking Dive news delivered to your inbox Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Email: Select Newsletter: Daily Dive M-F Select Newsletter: Fintech Weekly Every Wednesday Select user consent: By signing up to receive our newsletter, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . You can unsubscribe at anytime. Sign up A valid email address is required. Please select at least one newsletter. Company Announcements View all | Post a press release Bank Profits Jump 12% in Q2 but Credit Is Slipping at Nearly Half of U.S. Banks, BlastPoint Fi… From BlastPoint August 31, 2026 Piedmont Advantage Members Vote Yes to Merge with Truliant From Truliant Federal Credit Union August 26, 2026 Orion Financial Goes Live with Narmi Lend to Expand Member Access to Lending From Narmi August 26, 2026 Sogolytics Releases First National Credit Union Member Experience Benchmarks From Sogolytics August 13, 2026 Editors' picks Michael M. Santiago / Staff via Getty Images JPMorgan’s Lake exits as Petno, Rohrbaugh named co-presidents Longtime executives Doug Petno and Troy Rohrbaugh will each hold two roles, as Marianne Lake – previously seen as a potential successor to CEO Jamie Dimon – retires from the company. By Gabrielle Saulsbery • June 25, 2026 Permission granted by Byline Bank Q&A Byline Bank CEO discusses approaching $10B threshold Since Alberto Paracchini helped recapitalize Byline with $2.4 billion in assets in 2013, the Chicago bank has nearly quadrupled in size. By Gabrielle Saulsbery • April 14, 2026 Latest in Commercial Wells, BofA, Citi back upcoming stablecoin By Dan Ennis Mike Lyons begins his Truist era By Caitlin Mullen U.S. Bank expands business banking roster By Caitlin Mullen VALT Bank gets FDIC’s nod By Gabrielle Saulsbery Explore About Editorial Team Contact Us Newsletter Purchase Licensing Rights Press Releases What We're Reading Reach our audience Advertising Post a press release Submit an opinion piece Promote an event Related Publications CFO Dive Payments Dive This website is owned and operated by Informa TechTarget , a global network that informs, influences and connects the world's technology buyers and sellers. © 2025 TechTarget, Inc. or its subsidiaries. All rights reserved. An Informa PLC company. Privacy policy | Terms of use | Take down policy | Cookie Preferences / Do Not Sell Search Home Topics Commercial Retail Credit Unions Payments Regulations & Policy Technology Fintech Deep Dive Opinion Library Events Press Releases Get Banking Dive in your inbox The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines Email: Select Newsletter: Daily Dive M-F Select Newsletter: Fintech Weekly Every Wednesday Select user consent: By signing up to receive our newsletter, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . You can unsubscribe at anytime. Sign up A valid email address is required. Please select at least one newsletter.