Trump denies U.S. running low on some munitions, says vast resupplies being produced - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Cyberattacks World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War Cyberattacks World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Politics Trump denies U.S. running low on some munitions, says vast resupplies being produced Updated on: August 6, 2026 / 4:25 AM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google President Trump is taking issue with recent reports of significant U.S. munitions shortages due to the war with Iran . In a post on his Truth Social platform early Thursday, Mr. Trump said, "The U.S. has massive amounts of 'munitions,' especially of certain types. Additionally, large amounts are being manufactured and shipped to the U.S. as needed. Defense companies are building the largest number of plants and factories in our country's history. The 'leakers' of these treasonous statements are being hunted down. Long term jail sentences will be sought!" CBS News reported Tuesday that the U.S. has used nearly all of its global stockpile of long-range precision missiles during the war, according to two sources with direct knowledge of the matter. The sources said the U.S. has used virtually all of its Army Tactical Missile Systems, known as ATACMS, and Precision Strike Missiles. Reuters was first to report that the U.S. had used "virtually all" of its long-range precision missiles during Operation Epic Fury. CBS News previously reported that the U.S. has dwindling stockpiles of defensive interceptors and long-range missiles, which has become a pressure point within the administration, and that the U.S. cannot sustain the rate at which it expended precision munitions early in the war with Iran. U.S. officials said there are limited inventories of the ATACMS and Precision Strike Missiles, and that the most pressing concern involves the number of Patriot and Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) interceptors, which have been used faster than the industry can replace them. A July report from the Center for Strategic and International Studies estimated that before the war began, the U.S. had 2,330 Patriots, and at the end of July, was down to between 759 and 827 of them. The report also estimated that before the war, the U.S. had 452 THAAD interceptors, and as of July 27, was down to between 234 and 278. Another recent CSIS report estimates it could take until at least mid-2029 to return to pre-war inventory levels for both. Chief Pentagon spokesperson Sean Parnell said in a statement to CBS News that, "America's military is the most powerful in the world and has everything it needs to execute at the time and place of the President's choosing. We have executed multiple successful operations across combatant commands while ensuring the U.S. military possesses a deep arsenal of capabilities to protect our people and our interests." Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth has previously dismissed concerns about the U.S. stockpile. "That is a manufactured story that the media wants to peddle and ultimately our stockpiles are great, and they're only getting stronger," Hegseth said on "Face the Nation with Margaret Brennan" on June 14. Late Wednesday, White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt denied a Washington Post report saying Mr. Trump and Hegseth had a heated exchange about munitions shortages on the sidelines of a Cabinet meeting at Camp David on Friday. Jennifer Jacobs and Sara Cook contributed to this report. The War with Iran More Senator pushes DoD to release probe of Iranian attack that killed 6 U.S. troops Trump says Strait of Hormuz deal could happen soon amid talks U.S. has used nearly all its stockpile of long-range missiles, sources say Progress made in Strait of Hormuz talks, Rubio says Trump says deal to end Iran war may be imminent, agrees to "cancel the attack" Go deeper with The Free Press Mr. President, Give Up on a Nuclear Deal With Iran America’s Munitions Mess Is Even Worse Than You Think In: Pentagon Iran Donald Trump © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Concerns over U.S. munitions stockpile U.S. has used nearly all of its stockpile of long-range precision missiles, sources say 01:59 U.S. has used nearly all of its stockpile of long-range precision missiles, sources say (01:59) U.S. has used nearly all its stockpile of long-range missiles, sources say Pirro brought box of evidence to show Trump what caused Reflecting Pool damage Trump raises concerns in call with Rep. Max Miller amid abuse allegations Mr. President, Give Up on a Nuclear Deal With Iran Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue