UK house prices flat in July, says Lloyds, as buyers struggle with affordability | Housing market | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Money Property Pensions Savings Borrowing Careers House prices in Greater London were down 1.3% year on year to an average of £533,930. Photograph: Karl Hendon/Getty Images View image in fullscreen House prices in Greater London were down 1.3% year on year to an average of £533,930. Photograph: Karl Hendon/Getty Images Housing market UK house prices flat in July, says Lloyds, as buyers struggle with affordability Property prices in ‘suspended animation’ owing to higher mortgage rates and uncertainty in Middle East Business live – latest updates Lauren Almeida Fri 7 Aug 2026 05.32 EDT Last modified on Fri 7 Aug 2026 05.42 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google UK house prices were broadly stagnant in July as prospective buyers were squeezed by higher mortgage rates, uncertainty around the Middle East and stretched affordability, according to the lender Lloyds. The average property cost £299,253 in July, down by £143 compared with June, the bank’s monthly index found. Prices are only 0.1% higher compared with a year ago, the weakest rate of annual growth since November 2023, Lloyds said. Amanda Bryden, the head of mortgages at the lender, said many would-be buyers were struggling with affordability, especially as recent events in the Middle East prompted a rise in mortgage rates. “While housing demand remains broadly steady, activity continues to respond quickly to changes in mortgage rates,” she said. “Looking ahead, we expect market activity and house prices to remain relatively stable over the remainder of the year. Developments will be shaped by both how mortgage rates respond to the outlook for inflation and wider household confidence.” Rising tensions in the Middle East have stoked fears around inflation, feeding expectations of interest rate rises this year. The average rate for a two-year fixed residential mortgage rate stood at 5.63% on Friday, according to the market tracker Moneyfacts, while the average five-year deal was 5.67%. Both were below 5% at the start of the year. Anthony Codling, an analyst at the broker RBC Capital Markets, said the Lloyds research showed a narrative of “suspended animation”. “Prices are neither falling sharply nor rising with any conviction, trapped in a narrow two-year range by the twin vices of stretched affordability and mortgage rates that refuse to fall far enough for long enough,” he said. “The market is not in crisis, but the green shoots that flickered briefly in early 2026 have wilted.” skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Every weekday Sign up to Business Today Get set for the working day – we'll point you to all the business news and analysis you need every morning Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion UK house prices up just 0.1% in July as buyers remain cautious on interest rates Read more Northern Ireland remained the best performer across the UK, Lloyds found. House prices grew by 7.4% compared with last year, with the average hitting £231,131. Prices in Scotland rose by 3.6% to an average of £223,246, while in Wales annual growth stood at 1.6%, with the average property value at £231,458. In England, price growth was strongest in the north, with the north-east reporting annual growth of 2.8%, taking the average to £182,488, while prices in the north-west rose 2.1% to £247,836. The weakest areas were in the south-east, where prices fell 2% to an average of £381,146, and Greater London, which recorded a 1.3% decline to £533,930. Nicholas Finn, a managing director at the London estate agent Garrington Property Finders, said England’s north-south property divide was “becoming more entrenched”. “In southern areas, a glut of supply is attracting too few serious buyers, and this is steadily dragging down prices,” he said. “In northern England, the forces of supply and demand are more balanced. The buzz surrounding No 10 North , and the prospect of job creation and government investment in northern areas, are boosting sentiment and supporting the upward trajectory in prices.” Explore more on these topics Housing market House prices Property Lloyds Banking Group Consumer affairs UK cost of living crisis news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story UK house prices up just 0.1% in July as buyers remain cautious on interest rates 31 Jul 2026 UK house prices rise for first time since start of Iran war 7 Jul 2026 UK house prices stall for second straight month as agents warn of summer slump 1 Jul 2026 UK housebuilders face class action suit over alleged collusion to inflate prices 30 Jun 2026 UK house prices fall for third successive month amid Iran war uncertainty 5 Jun 2026 UK house prices fall for first time this year amid rising mortgage rates 1 Jun 2026 UK house price growth halved as Iran war fallout hits housing market 8 May 2026 UK house prices jump despite impact of Middle East conflict 1 May 2026 Most viewed Most viewed Money Property Pensions Savings Borrowing Careers News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)