FAA certifies Boeing’s 737 MAX 7, its smallest MAX model | The Seattle Times Skip to content Local News Local News Law & Justice Local Politics Traffic Lab Climate Lab Environment Weather Health Data/FYI Guy Project Homeless Education Lab Education Times Watchdog Mental Health Eastside Equity & Inclusion Danny Westneat Naomi Ishisaka Business & Tech Business & Tech Boeing & Aerospace Real Estate Amazon Technology Microsoft Alaska Airlines Costco Economy Artificial Intelligence Jon Talton Nation & World Nation & World Nation World Nation & World Politics Oddities Sports Sports Seahawks Mariners Huskies Cougars Storm Kraken Sounders Reign Torrent Mike Vorel High School Sports On TV/Radio Entertainment Entertainment Music Movies Books TV/Streaming Theater Visual Arts Classical Music Life Life Food & Drink Travel Outdoors Wellness Culture How to Seattle Rant & Rave Opinion Opinion Editorials Letters to the Editor Op-Eds David Horsey Brier Dudley Kate Riley Melissa Davis Alex Fryer Carlton Winfrey Claudia Rowe Josh Farley Print Replica Games & Puzzles Games & Puzzles Slide Mini Crossword Large Crossword Word Flower KenKen LA Times Crossword Midi Crossword Seattle Wordy New Jigsaw Puzzle – Beta NY Times Crossword Seattle Times News Quiz WordroW New Sudoku Word Search Killer Sudoku New Easy Sudoku New Hard Sudoku Comics Horoscopes Paid Obituaries Newsletters Today’s Paper Pacific NW Magazine Homes & Real Estate At Home Video Photography Latest Inside the Times The Ticket Explore Best in the PNW Jobs HomePro Autos Classifieds Sponsored Contact Local News Law & Justice Local Politics Traffic Lab Climate Lab Environment Weather Health Data/FYI Guy Project Homeless Education Lab Education Times Watchdog Mental Health Eastside Equity & Inclusion Danny Westneat Naomi Ishisaka Business & Tech Boeing & Aerospace Real Estate Alaska Airlines Costco Amazon Technology Microsoft Economy Artificial Intelligence Nation & World Nation World Nation & World Politics Oddities Sports Seahawks Huskies Mariners Cougars Kraken Sounders Reign Storm Torrent High School Sports On TV/Radio Mike Vorel Matt Calkins Entertainment Music Movies Books TV/Streaming Theater Visual Arts Classical Music Local Media Comics Games & Puzzles Horoscopes Life Food & Drink Travel Outdoors Wellness Culture How to Seattle Rant & Rave Opinion Editorials Letters to the Editor Op-Eds David Horsey Brier Dudley Kate Riley Melissa Davis Alex Fryer Carlton Winfrey Claudia Rowe Josh Farley Pacific NW Magazine Print Replica Games & Puzzles Comics Homes & Real Estate At Home Photo & Video Inside the Times Paid Obituaries Latest The Ticket Explore Best in the PNW Jobs HomePro Autos Classifieds Sponsored Newsletters Print Replica Today’s Paper Contact Newsletters Log In Subscribe Boeing & Aerospace Local Biz Nation Sports Entertainment Life Homes Opinion | The Ticket Jobs Explore Boeing & Aerospace Amazon Real Estate Alaska Airlines Costco Economy Microsoft Technology Boeing & Aerospace Boeing & Aerospace Amazon Real Estate Alaska Airlines Costco Economy Microsoft Technology Boeing & Aerospace Newsletters Log In Subscribe Boeing & Aerospace FAA certifies Boeing’s 737 MAX 7, its smallest MAX model Aug. 3, 2026 at 10:01 am Updated Aug. 3, 2026 at 12:10 pm Listen to article Make us a preferred source By Lauren Rosenblatt Seattle Times business reporter After nearly a decade, federal safety regulators have cleared Boeing’s 737 MAX 7 to fly with passengers. The Federal Aviation Administration said Monday that it had completed an “extensive review,” and issued an amended type certificate and updated Production Limitation Record for the MAX 7, the smallest variant of Boeing’s MAX family. The amended type certificate confirms that the plane complies with all design and safety requirements while the Production Limitation Record authorizes Boeing to begin building the MAX 7. The FAA’s approval marks a huge step forward for Boeing’s long-delayed certification programs , something that has lingered on its to-do list as the plane-maker works to recover from a tumultuous few years, including fatal 737 MAX crashes in 2018 and 2019 and a midair panel blowout in 2024. But Boeing isn’t done with the certification stall yet. It is still working with the FAA to certify the MAX 10, the largest variant of its narrowbody MAX family, and the 777X family, a series of two widebody passenger planes and one freighter. Before granting certification for the MAX 7, the FAA said Monday it required Boeing to incorporate “key improvements” to address safety legislation passed after the fatal MAX crashes and recommendations from the National Transportation Safety Board. Advertising The FAA also required Boeing to incorporate a redesigned engine anti-ice system, after discovering a potential design defect that put the system at risk of overheating. Boeing had originally asked the FAA to certify the plane without the engine anti-ice fix but withdrew that request after the 2024 panel blowout. The FAA said Monday that the new design changes “provide pilots clearer information and warnings and prevent the engine inlet from overheating and potentially weakening the surrounding structure.” “The approval reflects years of sustained work to resolve complex technical issues and complete a thorough review of the airplane’s design and supporting safety analyses,” the FAA said in a statement. FAA safety inspectors will remain on-site at Boeing’s factories to continue monitoring the company’s manufacturing processes, the agency said Monday. Boeing began its MAX 7 testing program in 2018 and has since completed more than 1,000 hours of flight and ground testing, the company said Monday in a news release. Boeing’s 737 MAX family Source: Boeing (Graphic by Mark Nowlin / The Seattle Times) Advertising Boeing executives lauded the certification milestone on Monday. Stephanie Pope, the CEO of Boeing Commercial Airplanes, told employees in a note Monday that the “multi-year journey to this milestone has been long and winding.” “Our team has had to navigate various challenges, an extended pandemic and the transition to new certification processes as lawmakers put in place new requirements to strengthen airplane safety,” Pope said. “The tens of thousands of hours of work have been worth it … for Boeing, for our customers and for commercial aviation.” Mike Sinnett, senior vice president of product strategy, product development and development programs, said in a statement that Boeing now has “developed a clearer understanding of the latest regulatory requirements,” which should help speed up “future airplane development.” Boeing said it is working with Southwest Airlines, the MAX 7 launch customer, to prepare for delivery of the first airplane. A spokesperson declined Monday to share an exact delivery date, but CEO Kelly Ortberg told analysts on the company’s quarterly earnings call last week that it expects to start deliveries for the MAX 7 and MAX 10 in 2027. Boeing will need to rework MAX 7 planes that have already been built to add design changes made during the lengthy certification process, something the plane-maker calls “change incorporation.” But the spokesperson declined to share how many MAX 7s have already been built or how long that repair work will take. Advertising A Southwest spokesperson said Monday that the airline looks forward “to the plane entering service in the coming months.” “Certification is an important step toward continuing to modernize our all-Boeing 737 fleet with upgraded interiors and more fuel-efficient aircraft to fit our customers’ preferences and demand patterns,” the spokesperson said. The MAX 7 will be Boeing’s smallest MAX variant, with room for 135 to 160 passengers, according to the company’s news release Monday. The MAX 8 and MAX 9, already in production, can seat up to 180 and 195 passengers, respectively, while the yet-be-certified MAX 10 will hold up to 210 passengers. Most Read Business Stories Amazon lays off 121 WA employees The Bellevue Collection is for sale after 80 years of family ownership Heir to Scripps broadcasting fortune sells Medina mansion for $22.8M New matcha farm on Whidbey Island envisions WA as a major tea producer Maverick WA closes 2 cardrooms, lays off 238 workers The MAX 7 will also have the longest range, able to fly up to 3,800 nautical miles. Comparatively, the MAX 8 flies 3,500 nautical miles, the MAX 9 flies 3,300 nautical miles, and the MAX 10 flies 3,100 nautical miles. Boeing’s MAX 8 has the most net orders among the MAX family, followed by the MAX 10, according to a media briefing Boeing hosted last month before the Farnborough Airshow, the aerospace industry’s marquee trade event . Through the end of May, Boeing had roughly 4,850 net orders for the MAX 8 and nearly 1,500 for the MAX 10. It had just over 500 orders for the MAX 9 and 280 for the MAX 7. Boeing said Monday that it still expects to certify the MAX 10 this year. It expects first delivery of its 777X family in 2027. Lauren Rosenblatt : 206-464-2927 or lrosenblatt@seattletimes.com . Lauren Rosenblatt is a Seattle Times business reporter covering Boeing and the aerospace industry. Make us a preferred source See more Seattle Times content on Google View Comments Posting comments is now limited to subscribers only. View subscription offers here . For more information, visit our FAQ's . The opinions expressed in reader comments are those of the author only and do not reflect the opinions of The Seattle Times. Recommended in Advertising COMPANY About Contact Careers Permissions Newsroom Staff COMMUNITY Newspapers in Education Fund for Those in Need Investigative Journalism Fund Advertise Media Solutions ST Content Studio Classifieds Jobs Autos Obituaries SUBSCRIPTION Subscribe My Account Print Replica Login Today’s Paper Mobile Apps Help/FAQ CONNECT Manage Newsletters Facebook Twitter RSS Newspaper Archive Access Copyright © 2026 The Seattle Times | Privacy Statement | Notice At Collection | Do Not Sell My Personal Information | Terms of Service