FAA clears smallest Boeing 737 Max to fly after years of delays Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Aerospace & Defense FAA clears smallest Boeing 737 Max to fly after years of delays Published Mon, Aug 3 2026 12:38 PM EDT Updated Mon, Aug 3 2026 4:09 PM EDT Leslie Josephs @lesliejosephs WATCH LIVE Key Points Boeing's 737 Max 7 received certification from the Federal Aviation Administration after years of delays. It's a key step for Boeing, since manufacturers receive the bulk of an airplane's price when they hand it over to customers. Airlines can finally start flying passengers soon after planes are certified, but it can take them months to work them into schedules. In this article BA Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 1:22 01:22 FAA certifies Boeing's 737 Max-7 Halftime Report The Federal Aviation Administration has certified the Boeing 737 Max 7, the smallest model in the bestselling family of aircraft, after nearly a decade of delays for safety reviews. Carriers including Southwest Airlines expected to fly the plane before the pandemic, but increased regulatory scrutiny following the fatal crashes of the in-service Max 8, in 2018 and 2019, other safety and manufacturing crises, and the redesign of an engine anti-icing system delayed certification. The agency on Monday said the approval "reflects years of sustained work to resolve complex technical issues and complete a thorough review of the airplane's design and supporting safety analyses." Boeing stock rose 8% Monday. Airlines can finally start flying passengers soon after planes are certified, but it can take them months to work them into schedules. The already-built Max 7 planes for Southwest, which make up the bulk of the Max 7s in inventory, will need to be outfitted with the carrier's new extra legroom seats. Southwest won't likely start flying the planes until next year. "This important certification validates the rigor of our airplane's design and recognizes the determination and resilience of our 737 MAX development team," Stephanie Pope , president and CEO of Boeing Commercial Airplanes, said in a statement. The FAA said it required other changes to the plane beyond the redesign of the engine anti-ice system, including to the flight control software and crew alerting system. Boeing is also awaiting certification from the FAA of another long-delayed model, the 737 Max 10, which is the largest in the family and one that some carriers expected to start flying in 2020 as well as the manufacturer's largest plane, the 777X. The plane maker has about 40 of the 737 Max 7s and 737 Max 10s built and in inventory already, and the FAA approval could help the manufacturer bring in much-needed cash, Jefferies analyst Sheila Kahyaoglu said in a note Sunday. Boeing and other manufacturers receive the bulk of an airplane's price when they hand it over to customers. The manufacturer, a top U.S. exporter, has been working to ramp up production of its 737 Maxes and 787 Dreamliners, key to its recovery after years of crisis since airlines and other customers pay the bulk of the aircraft's price upon delivery. Boeing opened a fourth production line in Everett, Washington, in July for its 737 Max airplanes. The company has been working to win back the trust of the FAA, and has made strides, including in mid-July, when the FAA said it could once again issue airworthiness certificates for its bestselling 737 Max aircraft and 787 Dreamliners. The agency stripped that from Boeing after the Max 8 crashes, which killed 346 people. — CNBC's Michele Luhn contributed to this report. Read more CNBC airline news Companies spurn airlines’ cheapest business class tickets American Airlines will stop upgrading elite flyers to business from coach on long domestic flights Why flights are so expensive and will likely stay that way Southwest Airlines put Texas jet fuel on a boat to LA for the first time amid supply worries United Airlines’ new upsell: Keeping other travelers out of the middle seat Record heat, crowds drive offseason boom in international travel Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by