Michelin-star restaurant Ynyshir gets five-star hygiene rating back - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Wales Wales Politics Wales Business North West North East Mid South West South East Cymru Local News Michelin-star restaurant regains top hygiene score after previous one-star inspection Image caption, Ynyshir Restaurant and Rooms in Ceredigion is run by chef Gareth Ward By Paul Pigott BBC Wales Published 5 August 2026 Updated 4 hours ago Wales' only two-Michelin-star restaurant that received a one-star food hygiene rating after inspectors found flies, broken equipment and a dirty knife has had its top score restored. Ynyshir Restaurant near Machynlleth in mid Wales was ordered to stop serving raw lobster after Ceredigion council had found "significant hazards" were not properly identified. Ynyshir serves Japanese-inspired raw dishes as part of its nearly £500 a head 30-course tasting menu, and had accused inspectors of not understanding its specialised procedures. The council has now awarded it a hygiene rating of five after it found the "business had addressed all matters identified during the original inspection". "This outcome demonstrates the effectiveness of the food hygiene inspection process and the positive results that can be achieved through constructive engagement between regulatory officers and food businesses to improve standards," the council said. Chef Gareth Ward previously said he had not been embarrassed when the restaurant had been given a 1-out-of-5 score. Ynyshir has been asked to comment. Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Chef Gareth Ward (left), pictured at The Good Food Guide Awards in 2023 Food critic Giles Coren previously came out in support of the restaurant, claiming Michelin-starred restaurants should not have to abide by normal health and safety rules and the guidelines should "probably be modernised". "It is not little kitchens and pots boiling away, mimsy little things being placed on plates. He is cooking with fire... he stands there in his leather apron and it's roaring like fireworks," Coren said. Ward, who has recently announced he will be bringing fine dining to Aberystwyth Town Football Club , previously said his restaurant was working "at the highest standard in the world" and doing "something different" with how it had approached raw ingredients and techniques. He said he had faced "persistent challenges" with Ceredigion council's environmental health department, "primarily relating to documentation and a lack of understanding of our specialised procedures". A Freedom of Information (FOI) request by BBC News revealed the one-star rating had been based on factors including a dirty floor, inadequate hand-washing facilities in some areas, broken equipment and "an accumulation of dead flies". Ceredigion council said inspections had been carried out in line with national standards set by the Food Standards Agency and, between April and December 2025, 90% of inspected premises in Ceredigion had achieved a food hygiene rating of between three and five out of five. Related topics Wales Machynlleth Restaurants More top stories Dewormer and scabies drugs being sold as cancer treatments, BBC investigation finds Published 1 day ago Huw Edwards criticised for entering festival poetry competition Published 2 days ago Fires started 'deliberately' on mountain as crews tackle blaze Published 1 day ago The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:49 Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales. 00:00:49, play video Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales 0:59 The city closing down streets so children can play. 00:00:59, play video The city closing down streets so children can play 1:23 The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII. 00:01:23, play video The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII 0:37 Crispy butter beans with whipped feta. 00:00:37, play video Crispy butter beans with whipped feta 0:57 Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites. 00:00:57, play video Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens Top stories Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at Army teen college Published 5 hours ago Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns Published 3 hours ago Live . Fifa latest: Infantino remains president after tumultuous period 3491 viewing 3.5k viewing More to explore Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear in the office? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Rihanna is 'in the studio', says partner A$AP Rocky Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Families' anger at jailed funeral boss's apology letter Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Love shouldn't feel like fear How hydrated do you really need to be? Melvin Odoom on the MiniDiscs he can't throw away The origin story of the first Comic Con Most read 1 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 2 Meredith Kercher's sister criticises Amanda Knox comedy show 3 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at Army teen college 4 Why phones on loudspeaker may become just another noise 5 Meta becomes latest firm to say its AI hacked another company 6 Families' anger at jailed funeral boss's apology letter 7 Car washes and vape shops can still sponsor skilled foreign workers despite visa changes 8 Iran says deal with Oman on Strait of Hormuz is in final stages 9 The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon 10 Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear in the office? BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.