Foster + Partners cleared over man’s death when window fell from London penthouse | London | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 3 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland Mick Ferris was killed when a 130kg window fell from the Corniche, a luxury block of flats on the Albert Embankment, central London, in October 2018. Photograph: Dominic Lipinski/PA View image in fullscreen Mick Ferris was killed when a 130kg window fell from the Corniche, a luxury block of flats on the Albert Embankment, central London, in October 2018. Photograph: Dominic Lipinski/PA London Foster + Partners cleared over man’s death when window fell from London penthouse Court rules architecture firm not responsible for fatal incident but project managers and engineers found guilty of safety breaches Matthew Weaver Thu 6 Aug 2026 14.06 EDT First published on Thu 6 Aug 2026 09.55 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google The architecture firm founded by Norman Foster has been cleared over the death of a man killed by a window that fell 90 metres from a newly constructed London penthouse. Foster + Partners (F+P), the practice behind some of the world’s most recognisable buildings such as the Gherkin and revamps of the British Museum and Germany’s Reichstag, were not held to be responsible for the death of Mick Ferris , a 53-year-old coach driver, in 2018. However, St James, the project managers of the building where the incident took place, and the project’s engineers, Lindner Prater, were found guilty of safety breaches over the death by a jury at Inner London crown court. Ferris was killed instantly when the 130kg (287lbs) window fell from the penthouse of the Corniche, a luxury tower block development on Albert Embankment, on to the street below. View image in fullscreen The jury was told the designers should have considered the risk of the outward-opening, side-hung windows. Photograph: Nick Ansell/PA The court heard that just over a year earlier a window panel had also fallen from the same development. “Miraculously” no one was hurt but no changes were made to the designs as a result of that incident, the court heard. The prosecution, which was brought by the Health and Safety Executive, said Ferris’s death was foreseeable and the designers had ignored concerns about the proven danger of outward-opening windows. After more than 11 hours of deliberation the jury cleared F+P and the building’s design engineer, Wintech. But it found St James and Lindner Prater had failed in their duty to keep the public safe under the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974. The prosecutor Gordon Menzies told the jury it “wasn’t an accident waiting to happen … it was an accident that had already happened in August 2017. The prosecution say it was an accident waiting to happen again.” Ferris was killed by the falling window which had been blown off its hinges when the building was almost complete, the court heard. A woman coming towards him, who was pushing a wheelchair, narrowly missed being hit, jurors were told. A restrictor put in place to prevent the window being blown off had been removed, they heard. The designers had failed to consider the “catastrophic” consequences if something went wrong with this restrictor, the prosecution said. They also failed to take into account the fulcrum effect of an 85cm (33in) window being prised off its hinges, the prosecution said. Jurors were told that after the first window panel fell from the building the designers failed to use the incident as a reason to “go back to the drawing board”. The jury was told of 12 “missed opportunities” where the designers should have considered the risk of the outward-opening, side-hung windows. View image in fullscreen Billboards outside the new development in March 2017. Photograph: Martin Godwin/The Guardian All four defendants denied the charges and claimed they did all that was reasonably practicable to ensure safety. Menzies told the court: “The wind was sufficiently strong to blow the window open further than 8 and a half inches and the oversailing glass clashed with the frame and, as a result, the hinges were prised off.” skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Every day Sign up to Headlines UK Get the day’s headlines and highlights emailed direct to you every morning Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion Originally the windows had been designed to open inwards, but the design was changed to avoid them clashing with an internal ceiling coffer containing wires and pipes that they would have cleared, the court was told. It was only after Ferris’s death that the window design was changed back to inward-opening, the court heard. The prosecution said F+P should have known such risks due to its specialist knowledge of glass-covered buildings including the Gherkin. Lawyers for F+P said the firm’s role was limited and it was not involved in technical issues. They said it was there to focus on the visual aspects of the design. A spokesperson for F+P said: “Our thoughts remain with Mr Ferris’s family, as they have since October 2018. We note the court’s decision and are grateful to the jury for the time and care they have taken in considering this matter.” A spokesperson for Wintech said: “While the court has reached its conclusion, the tragedy of what happened remains. It is vital that we continue to reflect and learn, and as an industry, remain committed to strengthening standards and practices to help prevent such incidents in the future.” A spokesperson for St James said: “The death of Mick Ferris in 2018 was tragic. Our thoughts remain with his family and friends. We acknowledge today’s verdict and will carefully consider its implications.” Lindner Prater has been approached for comment. Explore more on these topics London Architecture Construction industry Berkeley Norman Foster England news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Campaigners welcome ‘long overdue’ listing of brutalist Southbank Centre 10 Feb 2026 Eden Project architect Nicholas Grimshaw dies aged 85 15 Sept 2025 Court clears way for ‘the Slab’ office block to be built on London’s South Bank 21 Dec 2024 Expensive and loathed, ‘the Slab’ will be a terrible monument. It’s being called Gove Towers and he deserves it 8 Feb 2024 … … comments Michael Gove approves ‘derided’ £400m development on London’s South Bank 6 Feb 2024 Shard to share title of tallest building in UK as new skyscraper gets green light 13 Dec 2024 ‘A triumph’: London’s £19bn Elizabeth line is named best new architecture in Britain 16 Oct 2024 Occult? Try upstairs! Inside the world’s weirdest library 25 Sept 2024 … … comments Solved: the mystery of how Victorians built Crystal Palace in just 190 days 16 Sept 2024 Notting Hill: 25 years after the film, what is left of the district’s character? 24 Feb 2024 Most viewed Most viewed UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)