Fifa president next candidates: Who might replace Gianni Infantino in world football's top job? - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland Quizzes News Feeds Help & FAQs Football Scores & Fixtures Tables Follow Your Team Premier League Gossip Transfers Women European Leagues & Cups Quizzes If Infantino goes, who might replace him as Fifa president? Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Victor Montagliani, Sheikh Salman bin Ebrahim Al Khalifa and Mattias Grafstrom are among those who could succeed Gianni Infantino as Fifa president By Simon Stone Chief football news reporter Published 3 August 2026 It feels as though the walls are closing in on Fifa president Gianni Infantino. The Swiss is in a lonely place after scrapping controversial plans to sell off stakes in Fifa competitions to private investment. As it stands, Infantino will stand for re-election in March as he targets a fourth and final term as president. He would need 106 votes from Fifa's 211 members to win. But national associations - including those from England and Wales - have begun to withdraw letters of support for his re-election. There is also the possibility the Fifa Council could try to force Infantino to resign through an emergency meeting. But if this is the beginning of the end of his tenure, who might take over? A bruising 24 hours - what next for Fifa and under-pressure Infantino? Published 1 August Call for 'full review' as pressure grows on Infantino Published 1 August Victor Montagliani Montagliani is the president of Concacaf, which runs football in North and Central America and the Caribbean. Like Infantino, he was elected in 2016 promising governance reform. A former president of Canada Soccer, Montagliani was heavily involved in the build-up to, and delivery of, the 2026 World Cup - the first to be hosted by three nations. He is fluent in French, Italian and Spanish, as well as English. Explaining his decision to run for the Concacaf presidency, Montagliani told the BC Business website: "Like anything, when I decide to go, I go. I campaigned on my own dime for three months, went to see all 41 countries, from the US to Bonaire - a little island off Venezuela." Montagliani took the lead when Concacaf hosted an expanded Copa America in 2024. In an interview with BBC Sport, he rejected the idea it could become a regular occurrence. Politically strong, he smoothed relations around former Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger's attempt to gain support for a World Cup every two years, and has never truly bought into the idea of a 64-team tournament. At the Leaders conference in 2025, he outlined why he felt football was strong enough to ride out any storm. "The game is bigger than world current leaders," he said. "Football will survive regimes. Does it cause a headache? Of course. You have to be realistic about that. That is the beauty of our game, it is bigger than any individual and country." Sheikh Salman bin Ebrahim Al Khalifa The AFC president, Al Khalifa was initially elected in 2013 and returned unopposed for a fourth term to run until 2027. The Bahraini has presided over significant growth within the Asian confederation, through the Champions League Elite, Champions League Two, the Challenge League and the Women's Champions League, which was launched in 2024-25. The Asian Cup has been expanded to 24 teams. Al Khalifa signed off the brutal takedown of how Fifa is being run by Infantino and has carried with him a 46-member confederation - many of whom are aware the figures being offered by Infantino's plan are huge in terms of their overall football expenditure. Nasser Al-Khelaifi Paris St-Germain president Al-Khelaifi took over as chairman of the European Clubs' Association in the aftermath of the other seismic event that threatened to pull the game apart - the ill-fated European Super League, which collapsed within 48 hours in 2021. Al-Khelaifi presided over a name change - to European Football Clubs. More importantly, he expanded it to more than 800 members. Of the biggest clubs, only Real Madrid remain outside. In theory, the Qatari would be a serious challenger to Infantino. But it seems he doesn't want the role. "He genuinely, genuinely, genuinely doesn't want the job," was the response of a source close to the 52-year-old when asked about the possibility on Thursday. Mattias Grafstrom Appointed Fifa secretary general in May 2024, Grafstrom has become an increasingly influential voice around the Fifa table. He became Infantino's chief of staff following his election as president in 2016. Another very visual presence at the World Cup, he could be seen as being too close to Infantino - and the general feeling Fifa's next president needs to be a non-European might also count against him. Fifa's next president will be confirmed at the organisation's 77th Congress in Morocco next March. Candidates have until 18 November to put their names forward. Related topics Football More on this story Courting controversy and befriending Trump - the story of Fifa boss Infantino Published 1 August Get football news sent straight to your phone Published 1 day ago Shorts Previous Next 0:46 'This loss will be the making of him' Peet on Itauma defeat 00:00:46, play video 'This loss will be the making of him' Peet on Itauma defeat 0:38 Can Liverpool get Isak get firing? 00:00:38, play video Can Liverpool get Isak get firing? 1:02 Spurs fan - We should've got Liam Delap. 00:01:02, play video Spurs fan - We should've got Liam Delap 0:18 'Terminator' Hrgovic has one of the 'best chins in boxing' 00:00:18, play video 'Terminator' Hrgovic has one of the 'best chins in boxing' 0:27 Jake Paul is giving women's boxing a huge platform - Kamale. 00:00:27, play video Jake Paul is giving women's boxing a huge platform - Kamale 0:49 US Open players complain of cannabis smell. 00:00:49, play video US Open players complain of cannabis smell 1:11 What will Barcola bring to Liverpool? 00:01:11, play video What will Barcola bring to Liverpool? 0:38 Things get intense in the watchalong studio... 00:00:38, play video Things get intense in the watchalong studio... 0:33 Alex Scott responds to transfer speculation? 00:00:33, play video Alex Scott responds to transfer speculation? 0:26 Does Virgil van Dijk need more protection? 00:00:26, play video Does Virgil van Dijk need more protection? 0:27 'You can't play that!' - Gay trapped lbw. 00:00:27, play video 'You can't play that!' - Gay trapped lbw 0:40 McLaren contract extension 'easy decision' for Norris. 00:00:40, play video McLaren contract extension 'easy decision' for Norris 0:44 The worst thing about being a boxer. 00:00:44, play video The worst thing about being a boxer Top stories Itauma punches himself out against Hrgovic in world-title fight Published 47 minutes ago Man City open talks with Liverpool over Gakpo Published 3 hours ago £300m spent, bottom of the table... but Spurs boss De Zerbi 'not angry' Published 2 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC Low-key noughties sitcom starring Robert Webb and Paula Wilcox An immersive concert of ambient and classical soundscapes An action-revenge thriller steeped in mythology, starring Dev Patel Is crying good for you? Elsewhere in Sport £300m spent, bottom of the table... but Spurs boss De Zerbi 'not angry' 'That trust isn't there' - how does Iraola get best out of Isak? 'Not bad for the worst team in Premier League history' - Hull's perfect start A magician and a maverick - this could be Cherki's moment for Man City Lampard 'somewhere in the middle' of Mourinho and Ancelotti How England are building an attack to trouble Australia Division, drama and power - what next for Infantino and Uefa? Sutton's predictions v Royal Blood drummer Ben Thatcher 'A generational icon' - why wildcards abound for Venus Williams Have expensively assembled Rangers improved at all under 'mortified' McInnes? Villa sign Goretzka - what went wrong at Bayern and what will he bring? Why Herrera is playing for free in Spanish third division Are left-handers better and when will Root catch Tendulkar? Cricket Q&A Sir Billy Boston - 'the world-class athlete, whose story deserved to be told' Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.