Jordan Henderson transfer: England midfielder joins Chelsea as free agent - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland Quizzes News Feeds Help & FAQs Premier League Scores & Fixtures Table Follow Your Team Transfers Gossip England midfielder Henderson joins Chelsea Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Jordan Henderson made his Premier League debut against Chelsea nearly 18 years ago By Michael Emons BBC Sport journalist Published 3 August 2026 England midfielder Jordan Henderson has joined Chelsea on a two-year deal after his contract with Brentford was mutually terminated. Henderson, 36, captained Liverpool to the Premier League title in 2019-20 and also won the Champions League, FA Cup, League Cup twice, the Uefa Super Cup and the Fifa Club World Cup in his time at Anfield. In 2023 he moved to Saudi Arabian club Al-Ettifaq, before joining Dutch side Ajax in January 2024, and returned to the Premier League with Brentford last summer, making 32 top-flight appearances in 2025-26. "Given the size of the club, the manager [Xabi Alonso] who I have great admiration for, and the quality of the players, this was a huge opportunity I couldn't turn down," said Henderson. "For me, it's about giving everything every single day, both on and off the field, to help the players around me and the team as much as possible. I'm very excited to get going." Henderson came through the ranks at Sunderland and made his Premier League debut for them as a substitute in a 5-0 loss to Chelsea on 1 November 2008. Como agree £31m deal to sign Chalobah from Chelsea Published 3 August Alonso heals Real Madrid scars to lead Chelsea's senior revolution Published 2 August Image source, Getty Images He earned the first of his 91 England caps in 2010 and has played in seven major tournaments, including the final of the European Championship in 2021 as the Three Lions lost on penalties to Italy. This summer he became the first Englishman to feature in four different World Cups when he came on as a late substitute in the 2-0 victory over Panama. However, that would be his only appearance of the tournament as he then suffered a broken arm in freak circumstances . Henderson fell awkwardly after attempting to jump over the advertising hoardings at the side of the pitch following the last-16 win over Mexico, a match he had not played in. He had also earlier received a booking during the game for criticising a decision by the officials when warming up. Mudryk Chelsea return will take time - Alonso Published 1 August What happened to star signings your club never made? Published 2 August Image source, Getty Images Chelsea finished 10th in the Premier League last season, one point and one place behind Brentford , and failed to qualify for European football. New boss Alonso has been busy in the transfer market, with Henderson the 10th player to join the Blues this summer. Chelsea agreed a club-record £117m deal to sign England midfielder Morgan Rogers, 23, from Aston Villa , 35-year-old England striker Danny Welbeck joined in a reported £5m move from Brighton on Saturday, and Strasbourg midfielder Valentin Barco arrived on Sunday. Defender Maxence Lacroix, 26, joined for £52m from Crystal Palace , right-back Marco Palestra, 21, moved from Atalanta for £42m and right winger Geovany Quenda signed for £40m from Sporting. The other new additions are 23-year-old striker Emmanuel Emegha from Strasbourg, left-back Denner, 18, from Corinthians and 17-year-old striker Dastan Satpaev from Kairat Almaty. In terms of outgoings, Como agreed a deal on Monday worth more than £30m to sign Chelsea defender Trevoh Chalobah . Figure caption, Henderson injured in England celebrations Related topics Football Premier League Chelsea Brentford Football Transfers More on this story Latest Chelsea news, analysis and fan views Ask about Chelsea - what do you want to know? Shorts Previous Next 0:46 'This loss will be the making of him' Peet on Itauma defeat 00:00:46, play video 'This loss will be the making of him' Peet on Itauma defeat 0:38 Can Liverpool get Isak get firing? 00:00:38, play video Can Liverpool get Isak get firing? 1:02 Spurs fan - We should've got Liam Delap. 00:01:02, play video Spurs fan - We should've got Liam Delap 0:18 'Terminator' Hrgovic has one of the 'best chins in boxing' 00:00:18, play video 'Terminator' Hrgovic has one of the 'best chins in boxing' 0:27 Jake Paul is giving women's boxing a huge platform - Kamale. 00:00:27, play video Jake Paul is giving women's boxing a huge platform - Kamale 0:49 US Open players complain of cannabis smell. 00:00:49, play video US Open players complain of cannabis smell 1:11 What will Barcola bring to Liverpool? 00:01:11, play video What will Barcola bring to Liverpool? 0:38 Things get intense in the watchalong studio... 00:00:38, play video Things get intense in the watchalong studio... 0:33 Alex Scott responds to transfer speculation? 00:00:33, play video Alex Scott responds to transfer speculation? 0:26 Does Virgil van Dijk need more protection? 00:00:26, play video Does Virgil van Dijk need more protection? 0:27 'You can't play that!' - Gay trapped lbw. 00:00:27, play video 'You can't play that!' - Gay trapped lbw 0:40 McLaren contract extension 'easy decision' for Norris. 00:00:40, play video McLaren contract extension 'easy decision' for Norris 0:44 The worst thing about being a boxer. 00:00:44, play video The worst thing about being a boxer Top stories Itauma punches himself out against Hrgovic in world-title fight Published 47 minutes ago Man City open talks with Liverpool over Gakpo Published 3 hours ago £300m spent, bottom of the table... but Spurs boss De Zerbi 'not angry' Published 2 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC Low-key noughties sitcom starring Robert Webb and Paula Wilcox An immersive concert of ambient and classical soundscapes An action-revenge thriller steeped in mythology, starring Dev Patel Is crying good for you? Elsewhere in Sport £300m spent, bottom of the table... but Spurs boss De Zerbi 'not angry' 'That trust isn't there' - how does Iraola get best out of Isak? 'Not bad for the worst team in Premier League history' - Hull's perfect start A magician and a maverick - this could be Cherki's moment for Man City Lampard 'somewhere in the middle' of Mourinho and Ancelotti How England are building an attack to trouble Australia Division, drama and power - what next for Infantino and Uefa? Sutton's predictions v Royal Blood drummer Ben Thatcher 'A generational icon' - why wildcards abound for Venus Williams Have expensively assembled Rangers improved at all under 'mortified' McInnes? Villa sign Goretzka - what went wrong at Bayern and what will he bring? Why Herrera is playing for free in Spanish third division Are left-handers better and when will Root catch Tendulkar? Cricket Q&A Sir Billy Boston - 'the world-class athlete, whose story deserved to be told' Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.