Sen. Marsha Blackburn wins the Republican primary for governor of Tennessee IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Meet the Press U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Meet the Press U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline 2026 Election Sen. Marsha Blackburn wins the Republican primary for governor of Tennessee Blackburn, a longtime Trump ally, defeated Rep. John Rose for the nomination, NBC News projects, after the president decided not to endorse in the race. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Add NBC News to Google Marsha Blackburn wins GOP primary for Tennessee governor, NBC News projects 01:04 Get more news on Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 6, 2026, 9:29 PM EDT By Annelise Hanson Sen. Marsha Blackburn has won the Republican nomination for governor of Tennessee, NBC News projects, defeating Rep. John Rose in a race in which President Donald Trump declined to endorse. Blackburn, 74, became the first woman to represent Tennessee in the Senate after she won her current seat in 2018; she had served in the House since 2003. If she wins the governor’s race, she would be the first female governor. She will be a heavy favorite in the general election in the red state to succeed term-limited Republican Gov. Bill Lee. Jerri Green, a member of the Memphis City Council, won the Democratic nomination. Blackburn is considered one of the most conservative members of the Senate, known for her stances on abortion and transgender rights and her criticism of China’s influence. While Trump stayed out of the race, Blackburn and Rose both leaned on his name. The Tennessee Freedom Fund, a pro-Blackburn outside group, has spent heavily to tie her to Trump, airing advertisements featuring clips of Trump referring to her as “an incredible person” and saying: “Fantastic job you did. We’re proud of you.” At a rally in Washington in January, Trump praised Blackburn, saying, “Unfortunately, she’s running for governor,” and adding: “I’d love her not to. I begged her: ‘I said, ‘Marsha, don’t. We don’t want to lose you in the Senate.’” But the Nashville Banner reported that Trump told members of Tennessee’s congressional delegation on a flight to Memphis on Air Force One that he would not endorse Blackburn because of his relationship with Rose, according to two members of Congress who were present for the conversation. Rose, who represents Tennessee’s 6th District, is a former state agriculture commissioner who also positioned himself as a loyal Trump ally. Rep. John Rose, R-Tenn., arrives for a House Republican Conference meeting in the Capitol on in 2024. Bill Clark / CQ-Roll Call via Getty Images file It makes the race a rare Republican contest in which Trump has stayed on the sidelines. Trump has even double-endorsed GOP candidates in past races, like in South Carolina, where he added an endorsement of state Attorney General Alan Wilson to his backing of Lt. Gov. Pamela Evette ahead of a runoff Wilson won. Rose spent almost $13 million self-funding his gubernatorial bid. Blackburn is part of an unusually large group of senators running for governor in this election cycle. GOP Sen. Tommy Tuberville won his party’s gubernatorial nomination in Alabama this year, while Democratic Sen. Michael Bennet lost his primary in Colorado. Democratic Sen. Amy Klobuchar will be on the ballot for governor in Minnesota next week. Share Add NBC News to Google Annelise Hanson Annelise Hanson is an intern at NBC News. About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC