Zelenskyy calls for more air defences as Russian attack on Kyiv kills at least 17 | Ukraine | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Support the Guardian Last chance to fund independent journalism with 50% off Claim discount Claim discount Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development The attack set off fires in warehouses and storage areas. Photograph: Dan Bashakov/AP View image in fullscreen The attack set off fires in warehouses and storage areas. Photograph: Dan Bashakov/AP Ukraine Zelenskyy calls for more air defences as Russian attack on Kyiv kills at least 17 Ukraine shoots down most drones but no ballistic missiles in overnight attack that mainly targeted civilian facilities Oliver Holmes Wed 5 Aug 2026 12.41 EDT First published on Wed 5 Aug 2026 01.53 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Volodymyr Zelenskyy has blamed allies for not delivering air defences fast enough after Ukraine failed to shoot down a single Russian missile in a deadly overnight attack that killed at least 17 people and ⁠injured dozens more. Preliminary data from the Ukrainian air force showed its defences shot down 98 of the 115 drones fired by Russia overnight, but no ballistic missiles. “Ballistic missile interceptors could have saved the lives of those killed today,” the Ukrainian president said on social media. “It is very important that our partners understand that delays in supplying them, or an unwillingness to provide anti-ballistic systems, lead directly to such horrific casualties and destruction.” There is a global shortage of US-made Patriot interceptor missiles after demand soared with the Ukraine and Iran wars. Supplies of air defence missiles for Ukraine in the first half of this year fell to a third of their 2025 level, Zelenskyy said. Kyiv has been pleading for months for more Patriot interceptors while under intensifying attack. Last month Donald Trump suggested the US might grant Ukraine a licence to manufacture Patriots , but later he appeared to backtrack, telling reporters the underlying technology was “a hard thing to give away” . 9:02 Russia exploits Ukraine’s air defence shortage in deadly attack on Kyiv - The Latest Ukraine’s military administration said seven sites were hit in Wednesday’s assault that began after midnight. Zelenskyy said the main targets were civilian facilities, including a brewing company, construction materials warehouses and a railway station. Zelenskyy wrote on X: “Partners who are not yet ready to play a more active role in supplying interceptors can help by implementing new sanctions. A significant share of Russia’s ballistic missile production is still not under sanctions. Even now. “New steps are needed – from the G7, the European Union, and everyone who supports the protection of life. Thank you to those who are willing to help in this way.” Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the European Commission, said on social media on Wednesday that Moscow had committed more atrocities in its “illegal war”. “Once again we wake up to the news of horrible atrocities by Russia through its aerial attacks on Ukraine. Russia must pay for the destruction it has caused,” she said. France’s president, Emmanuel Macron, accused Russia of choosing to target civilians. “This policy of terror, carried out with missiles and drones, is unacceptable,” he said. “Each new attack reinforces an obvious truth: Russia must pay the price for its aggression and answer for its crimes.” He added that the EU would implement new sanctions while “strengthening military support for Ukraine so that it can defend itself and protect its population”. Kyiv’s mayor, Vitali Klitschko, said there may still be people under the rubble left by the attack on the city. Rescuers pulled two people from the ruins of a warehouse near the city centre. An ambulance driver was among the injured and four people were in a critical condition, Klitschko added. He ‌said the attack set off fires in warehouses and storage areas. A ​large fire broke out on the city’s outskirts and debris from a fallen missile landed beside a residential building. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Every day Sign up to Headlines Europe A digest of the morning's main headlines from the Europe edition emailed direct to you every week day Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion Ukraine war briefing: Russian soldier in Crimea shoots comrades and civilians Read more The Kyiv military administration said the attack caused an ammonia leak that emergency crews were tackling. Witnesses heard explosions throughout the city. One journalist reported dark smoke and the acrid smell of burning lingering in the air hours later. Natalia Reutska, who lives in Kyiv, told Agence France-Presse: “The night was so terrifying, so hard. We’ve gotten used to waking up thinking: ‘We were lucky today’, and that’s very scary.” Russian attacks on Kyiv also struck Epicentr, Ukraine’s largest home improvement and DIY retail chain. Two key logistics facilities and a factory were destroyed within minutes. The Russian defence ministry said it hit logistic hubs and supply centres in Kyiv and surrounding areas, claiming they were for being used for military purposes. Russia’s military has a history of striking civilian targets in Ukraine and committing atrocities . Officials in Ukraine were also monitoring Russian advances in the east. On Wednesday, authorities ordered hundreds of families with children to leave the stronghold city of Kramatorsk because of intensifying Russian strikes. “This is a difficult but necessary decision,” said the Donetsk region governor, Vadym Filashkin. “The security situation is deteriorating, so it is unacceptable to leave children under the constant threat of Russian attacks.” Kramatorsk is one of the major cities Russia has not yet captured in the eastern Donetsk region​, but Moscow’s forces are close by. On Tuesday, Ukraine hit Russian logistics hubs for the online retailer Wildberries, adding to ​more than a dozen ​it had attacked. Explore more on these topics Ukraine Russia Volodymyr Zelenskyy Europe news Share Reuse this content Most viewed ‘Basically, you give yourself to the man’: Trewley Precious Temple on her life as a Gypsy wife – and beyond Study finds three midlife health factors that could delay dementia for 13 years The takedown of Jason Arday has overjoyed the right, and must be a wake-up call for the left Jason Okundaye ‘Spectral lines’ and a giant plume: what science saw when the SpaceX rocket hit the moon One Night Only review – sex is legal for 12 hours a year in bizarre romcom More on this story More on this story Ukrainian drone attacks on Black Sea resort and Crimea kill 11, Russia claims 2d ago Russian missile destroys US firm’s Kyiv drone factory 7d ago ‘Lenin was an enemy of humanity’: Why Kyiv wants to put Cossack chief statue in place of Soviet leader 30 Jul 2026 Rising Zelenskyy and falling Netanyahu cross paths in chaotic White House 28 Jul 2026 Burnham’s Ukraine gambit is a symbolic start for PM who wants to look inward 27 Jul 2026 Romania summons Russia’s ambassador after downing third drone since Friday 26 Jul 2026 Ukraine strikes on Russia’s ‘Amazon’ warehouses bring war closer to ordinary people 24 Jul 2026 Mykhailo Drapatyi: Ukrainians hope new commander will end army’s ‘Soviet culture’ 22 Jul 2026 Zelenskyy fires Ukraine’s army chief and offers Fedorov ‘prominent position’ 21 Jul 2026 Russia pounds Kyiv for five hours in one of its biggest ballistic missile attacks 19 Jul 2026 Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)