Met officer who shot Chris Kaba will not face misconduct case - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions London No misconduct case for officer who shot Chris Kaba Image source, Kaba family Image caption, Chris Kaba was shot in Streatham, south London, in September 2022 Published 5 August 2026, 13:34 BST Updated 3 hours ago The Met police officer who shot Chris Kaba will not face misconduct proceedings, the Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC) has said. Sgt Martyn Blake shot the 24-year-old in Streatham, south London, in 2022 after Kaba tried to ram his way past police cars. Blake was cleared of murder following a trial in 2024. A decision was made in January to pause any proceedings involving Blake until a law change relating to the use of force in misconduct cases was introduced and its impact was clear, the IOPC said. Commissioner Sir Mark Rowley said the IOPC's decision brought an end to "almost four years of uncertainty" for Blake, calling the accountability process for police officers "disgraceful". In June the use of force test in such cases changed from the civil law test to the criminal law test, meaning actions that did not amount to a crime should not amount to misconduct either. Referring to Blake by his cypher NX121, Rowley said: "Today's decision finally brings to an end almost four years of uncertainty for NX121, his family and the wider firearms command, with all the considerable worry and stress that has brought. "We also recognise the profound impact on Chris Kaba's family, who continue to grieve their loss." 'Life on hold' He added: "Since NX121's unanimous acquittal by an Old Bailey jury, and in the absence of any evidence that he failed in his duties, we have been clear and consistent in our view that he should not face a misconduct hearing." The commissioner said the decision "must be a milestone moment" to reset the police accountability system. "No police officer is above the law, but we have been clear the system holding police to account is broken," he said. "Your life being on hold for four years or more as you go through multiple accountability processes is a disgraceful way to treat brave men and women. I also see the profound effect these cases routinely have on officers' families. "Criminals are held to account once by the courts - officers can be held to account four times through criminal, misconduct, civil and inquest processes that span years. That cannot be right." Amanda Rowe, IOPC director of engagement, said they had "always sought to avoid any unnecessary delays" in Blake's case, but said it was right proceedings were paused until the impact of new legislation was understood. "Having considered both our policy and the representations from the Kaba family and Sgt Blake, we have today notified them of our decision to withdraw disciplinary proceedings," she said. A coroner will now decide whether an inquest will take place into Kaba's death. 'Dangerous message' The IOPC's decision was criticised by the Justice for Chris Kaba Campaign and the charity Inquest, with both groups calling it a "blow" to Kaba's family. Temi Mwale, from the Justice for Chris Kaba Campaign, said the decision sent a "dangerous message", and Deborah Coles, from Inquest, said it signified that "police can act with impunity". Paula Dodds, chairwoman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, said the IOPC had made "the right decision". "Police officers are of course – and rightly – highly accountable for their actions. But the officer has sadly suffered years of legal scrutiny following this incident," she said. "We are pleased this has all now concluded and that the officer can continue to serve the public without this hanging over him." A spokesperson for the Mayor of London, Sir Sadiq Khan, said: "It is right that the IOPC have independently assessed the full circumstances of the case. "The mayor is clear that all lessons from this case must be learned for the benefit of the police, families and communities impacted." In a statement, City Hall Conservative Leader Susan Hall AM welcomed the news. She said: "This disgraceful investigation should never have begun in the first place. "The mayor and the ideologically captured IOPC are failing our police officers, not least our firearms officers, every day by refusing to provide the political and organisational support to the brave men and women who put themselves in harms way to keep us safe." She said the officer had been "let down at every stage and heads must roll". Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook , external , X , external and Instagram , external . Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk , external Related topics London Chris Kaba shooting Metropolitan Police Service Streatham More on this story Officer in Kaba shooting may not face misconduct case Published 8 July From other local news sites ‘I've lost a hell of a lot’ - fire DESTROYS Harold Hill garden and damages home External Romford Recorder Strike action planned for famous Greenwich attraction company next week External News Shopper Can a £12 changing robe rival DryRobe? My verdict after wild swimming External London Evening Standard Incredible images revive London's lost river that flows from Hampstead Heath External Hampstead and Highgate Express Hackney church to mark 200 years with fresh chapter after £192k grant External Hackney Gazette 8,000 homes planned for new south London neighbourhood External London Evening Standard Information about BBC links to other news sites Top stories Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate Published 1 hour ago Infantino remains Fifa president after executive meeting Published 17 minutes ago Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London Published 5 hours ago More to explore The cost of being single – and how friends are teaming up to beat it From flip flops to fisherman's sandals: How to look after your feet this summer 'My grandmother subjected my baby to female genital mutilation behind my back' 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' Kate Nash on Irish history, heritage and covering Sinéad O'Connor There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media 'This year has been the worst for my heat anxiety' Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Love shouldn't feel like fear How hydrated do you really need to be? Melvin Odoom on the MiniDiscs he can't throw away The origin story of the first Comic Con Most read 1 University of Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 2 Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London 3 See the Sun like never before with most detailed images yet 4 El-Sayed's victory sends tremors through Democratic Party 5 Family 'devastated' by death of girl, 9, as man charged with murder 6 Iran says it has agreed Strait of Hormuz shipping route with Oman 7 Student loan repayment rates an 'unsustainable burden', chancellor told 8 Apology after carer fed dog food to elderly woman by mistake 9 Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate 10 Drone carrying explosives found at German airport, police say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.