Afghan boxer, 26, arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Scotland Scotland Politics Scotland Business Edinburgh, Fife & East Glasgow & West Highlands & Islands NE, Orkney & Shetland South Tayside & Central Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece Image caption, Sharif Ahmadzai, 26, has been arrested in connection with the death of Elisabeth Jane Ross, known to friends as Lisa By Megan Bonar , BBC Scotland and Ben Philip , Reporting from in Athens Published 4 August 2026, 11:07 BST Updated 2 hours ago The man suspected of killing Scottish aid worker Elisabeth Jane Ross in Greece is 26-year-old Sharif Ahmadzai, the BBC understands. He was arrested after the body of the 38-year-old was found in a suitcase in an abandoned building in the Kypseli district of Athens on 18 July, several days after she was reported missing. Ahmadzai, who was born in Afghanistan and is a champion boxer, settled in Greece after travelling there as a teenager. Both Ross and Ahmadzai had worked with refugees and Greek police are investigating whether the pair knew each other through the charity sector. Ahmadzai was arrested on suspicion of homicide with intent, robbery and weapons offences, and is expected to appear in court in Athens on Wednesday. Police said the coroner's initial report failed to determine a cause of death, but more detailed examinations concluded it was an "obvious criminal act, likely asphyxiation". Figure caption, CCTV shows a man wheeling a suitcase through Athens streets The BBC understands Ahmadzai, who left Afghanistan after being orphaned aged 15, lives in Greece with his American wife, Alaina Hall, and their child. His father, a commander in the Afghan army, was shot dead and his mother and siblings were killed by a suicide bomber in Kabul. He travelled to Greece via Iran and Turkey, according to a video telling his story , external which was published by the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC), before settling in a refugee camp on the island of Lesbos. It is understood this is where he met his wife and converted to Christianity. The couple then set up the charity Love Every Nation Athens to help other refugees. Police said Elisabeth Jane Ross - who is from Edinburgh and is known to family and friends as Lisa - arrived in Greece on 26 June and stayed in the Kertasini area of Piraeus until 10 July. She had been volunteering with a refugee support group based in Athens. Image source, Facebook Image caption, This photo of Elisabeth Jane Ross - known by friends as Lisa - is believed to date from 2015 Ross told Greek friends that she was going to Kypseli to meet "American friends" on 15 July. The president of the Union of Police Officers of Southeast Attica, George Kalliakmanis, said they were investigating whether Ahmadzai had a key to the apartment Ross was staying in. The police union said it had verified footage appearing to show Ahmadzai carrying a suitcase which is believed to have contained the body. It added that a location sharing app, used by Ahmadzai's wife, showed that the suspect was at 9 Rethymnou Street – the place where Ross is thought to have died – in the days before. Police also said the suspect had used the dead woman's bank cards to withdraw money. The building the body was found in is about 20 minutes from where Ross had been staying. In an interview with BBC News, Kalliakmanis said: "They [police investigators] are looking into whether he [Ahmadzai] had met her [Ross] previously through his involvement in boxing or an NGO working with refugees, as she also worked for an NGO. "Could they have crossed paths in the past? Yes, it's possible." Kalliakmanis said Ahmadzai had denied murder but admitted to moving the body. "He claims he found her dead in the bathroom and panicked, fearing he would be blamed," he said. Kalliakmanis said police believed the suspect took the victim's bank card and phone, and "made sure" to send text messages to her family and friends to "make it seem like she was still alive". He said the police also believed the suspect used the victim's bank card to make withdrawals totalling "around €10,000". Kalliakmanis added that Ahmadzai's wife had no involvement or prior knowledge of the alleged crime. Flowers have been laid near to where her body was discovered. One message reads: "For Elisabeth, May you rest in peace and may your memory live on in the hearts of us all. With deepest sympathy and respect. You will not be forgotten." 'Passion for missionary work' In Edinburgh, Pastor Peter Anderson said Ross had been a "precious" member of the congregation at City on a Hill church for 20 years. He described her as having a "big passion" for missionary work and "cared for people all over the world". In a video posted on the City on a Hill Facebook page, the pastor said: "She had been to many places and served people. She was a very precious girl and it is a tragic loss." During searches of Ahmadzai's home, officers claimed to have recovered and seized a replica pistol and a knife. Police said they were also looking to trace Ross's American friends. Figure caption, What we know about the death of Edinburgh woman Elisabeth Jane Ross in Athens Additional reporting by Daphne Toli in Athens and Georgina Hayes in Scotland. Related topics Edinburgh Greece Athens More on this story Church tribute to 'precious' missionary found dead in suitcase in Greece Published 1 day ago Man admits transporting Scottish woman's body in suitcase, Greek police say Published 2 days ago Greek police fast-tracking tests to find out how British woman found in suitcase died Published 3 days ago The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:01 Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack. 00:01:01, play video Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack 0:57 Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites. 00:00:57, play video Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport 1:01 What are the 'luteal uglies'? 00:01:01, play video What are the 'luteal uglies'? 0:59 Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 00:00:59, play video Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 0:40 US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak. 00:00:40, play video US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak 0:35 PC Harper's mother on early release for killers. 00:00:35, play video PC Harper's mother on early release for killers 0:41 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti. 00:00:41, play video 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti 0:54 Why Scotland's exam results come first. 00:00:54, play video Why Scotland's exam results come first 1:06 Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 00:01:06, play video Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 0:39 Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests. 00:00:39, play video Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests 1:09 Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos. 00:01:09, play video Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos 0:25 Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas. 00:00:25, play video Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas 0:45 Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer. 00:00:45, play video Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer 0:55 Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight. 00:00:55, play video Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight 0:27 Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend. 00:00:27, play video Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend 0:59 How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president. 00:00:59, play video How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president 1:57 Are some schools taking discipline too far? 00:01:57, play video Are some schools taking discipline too far? Top stories Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack Published 4 hours ago More than 170 migrants rescued after boat catches fire in Channel Published 2 hours ago Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece Published 2 hours ago More to explore Which area has the best grades? Key takeaways from Scotland's exam results How to avoid the worst of the Italian heat I left my wife and twins behind - why this Nigerian man fled South Africa Breast cancer checks missing most women under 50 who are at risk, says study There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger After three traumatic years at uni, I fear I won't get my dream nursing job Woman has pioneering womb surgery to fix 'miracle' baby with intestines outside its body Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC 'I said maybeeee...' Follow police investigations from the 999 call to conviction The return of the thrilling, award-winning drama about the CIA Tommy and John Fury debate what makes a home Most read 1 Princess Eugenie gives birth to baby girl in Portugal 2 Athletes go 'missing' after Commonwealth Games ends 3 Major search under way for boy, 13, missing at sea 4 Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack 5 Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece 6 Bono, Eddie Vedder and Hozier among mourners at Glen Hansard's funeral 7 Man 'driven insane' by noise admits killing fish 8 Care company fined for running illegal children's homes in legal first 9 Ed Sheeran fined for failing to insure Aston Martin 10 Oil prices fall on hopes Strait of Hormuz could reopen BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.