Newscast - Could Reform Use The Navy To Stop Small Boats? - BBC Sounds Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds Bitesize CBeebies CBBC Food Home News Sport Business Technology Health Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live More menu Search Sounds Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds Bitesize CBeebies CBBC Food Home News Sport Business Technology Health Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Close menu BBC Sounds Sounds home page Menu Home Music Podcasts My Sounds Use BBC.com or the new BBC App to listen to BBC podcasts, Radio 4 and the World Service outside the UK. Find out how to listen to other BBC stations Episode details News , · 03 Aug 2026 , · 37 mins Could Reform Use The Navy To Stop Small Boats? Newscast Play Bookmark Bookmark Subscribe Subscribe Available for over a year Today, Reform have announced plans to use the Navy to stop small boat crossings. They suggest, that if they are elected, military personnel would accompany migrants back across the English channel, overriding French objections if necessary. Their opponents have said the plans are unworkable and come at a time when the party has been under pressure. Nigel Farage has been facing questions about his handling of donations and the party’s finances have been under wider scrutiny. James and Henry unpack the policy and look at why Reform has had a difficult summer. Plus, what happened when around 60,000 migrants tried to cross into Spanish territory from Morocco in one go? James is joined by Aitor Hernández-Morales, senior reporter at Politico and Greg Holyoke, Middle East North Africa specialist for BBC Monitoring to discuss Thursday’s migration crisis in Ceuta. You can now listen to Newscast on a smart speaker. If you want to listen, just say "Ask BBC Sounds to play Newscast”. It works on most smart speakers. You can join our Newscast online community here: https://bbc.in/newscastdiscord Get in touch with Newscast by emailing newscast@bbc.co.uk or send us a WhatsApp on +44 0330 123 9480. New episodes released every day. If you're in the UK, for more News and Current Affairs podcasts from the BBC, listen on BBC Sounds: https://bbc.in/4guXgXd Newscast brings you daily analysis of the latest political news stories from the BBC. The presenter was James Cook. It was made by Jack Maclaren with Shiler Mahmoudi and Anna Harris. The social producer was Gabriel Purcell-Davis. The technical producer was Jonathan Greer. The assistant editor is Chris Gray. The senior news editor is Sam Bonham. Programme Website Show less More episodes Cymraeg Gaeilge Gàidhlig BBC Sounds Help Contacts, Privacy and Information Help with Signing In Newsletter Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds Bitesize CBeebies CBBC Food Home News Sport Business Technology Health Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Cookies Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Make an editorial complaint Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.