Naked college swimmer killed security guard before fleeing on foot in Maui, police say IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Politics U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline U.S. news Naked college swimmer killed security guard before fleeing on foot in Maui, police say Legend Storer, 20, was a student at Concordia University Irvine and a NCAA Division II swimmer, according to the university’s website. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 8, 2026, 12:23 PM EDT / Updated Aug. 8, 2026, 1:35 PM EDT By Matt Lavietes A college athlete was arrested Thursday and accused of killing a 63-year-old security guard after police found him wandering naked through the streets of Maui. Legend Storer, 20, was arrested and charged with second-degree murder, first-degree burglary and indecent exposure, according to online court records. Storer was a student at Concordia University Irvine and a member of the university’s NCAA Division II swim team during the 2024 to 2025 academic school year, according to the team’s roster. He is accused of killing Michael Dyer, 63, of Lahaina, Hawaii, according to the court records. Dyer was working as a security guard at a residential building in Lahaina, on Maui’s west coast, according to news release by the Maui Police Department. Storer has pleaded not guilty to the charges. The Maui Police Department did not name Storer but said it received calls about a 20-year-old nude man wandering the streets of the nearby Kahana neighborhood around 3 a.m. on Thursday. Police said they apprehended the man around 3:30 a.m. and took him to Maui Memorial Medical Center for evaluation. He was “still unclothed and had sustained numerous abrasions” when officers found him, police said. At about 5:35 a.m., police said they responded to a call about Dyer being found unresponsive. Upon arrival, officers learned from medical personnel that Dyer had died of his injuries at the scene, police said. The press release does not specify the nature of Dyer’s injuries. After reviewing surveillance footage, police said they determined that the naked 20-year-old man approached the victim’s office at 1:45 a.m. that same morning and “assaulted him before fleeing on foot.” Authorities then transported Storer to Wailuku Police Station without incident, according to the police department. Concordia University Irvine did not immediately return a request for comment. A biography for Storer on his swim team’s website says he swims the breaststroke and sprints and that he is majoring in business finance. Share Add NBC News to Google Matt Lavietes I’m a reporter on NBC News’ breaking news team, covering crime, extreme weather, pop culture and more. I recently covered Hurricane Milton, which devastated the Tampa, Florida, metropolitan area, and the student-led protests at Columbia University. About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC