Whatnot valued at $20 billion as live shopping continues to boom Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu 2026 List Methodology 2025 List 2024 LIST 2023 List Newsletter CNBC Disruptor 50 Whatnot valued at $20 billion as live shopping continues to boom Published Fri, Aug 7 2026 11:02 AM EDT Ian Thomas @byIanThomas WATCH LIVE Key Points Whatnot raised $545 million in new funding at a $20 billion valuation. The valuation boost, nearly double from less than a year ago, comes as the livestreamed shopping market continues to grow. That market is valued at more than $22 billion, and Whatnot says it commands roughly 60% of it. Timon Schneider | Lightrocket | Getty Images Building on the growing popularity of livestreamed shopping, startup market Whatnot said on Friday that it has closed its latest round of funding at a $20 billion valuation, nearly doubling its valuation from less than a year ago. Whatnot, which said that it has more than 650,000 new people joining its platform each week, said in a release that it had already passed the $8 billion in gross merchandise volume it saw last year. Buyers have also more than doubled over the past year. With the funding from this latest round, a $545 million Series G led by Iconiq, Lightspeed and Avra, the company plans to invest in ways for sellers to grow on the platform, according to Grant LaFontaine, co-founder and CEO of Whatnot. "This investment allows us to build better tools, bring AI to more parts of the selling experience, help sellers reach more buyers, expand into new markets, and continue building the world's biggest and most trusted marketplace," LaFontaine said in the statement. Whatnot, which ranked No. 8 on this year's CNBC Disruptor 50 list , raised a $225 million Series F round led by DST Global and CapitalG in October 2025, valuing it at $11.5 billion. In January 2025, it raised $265 million in a Series E round, valuing it at nearly $5 billion. The company has raised approximately $1.5 billion since its founding in 2019. More coverage of the 2026 CNBC Disruptor 50 2026 CNBC Disruptor 50: See the full list of companies The latest trends shaping Disruptor success stories Inside the research process for this year's list How Armada is building data centers on the edge, and around the globe Shield AI, and the Pentagon's race to build cheaper drone fighters Watch: Waabi CEO on when the self-driving big rigs will be here Watch: Replit's CEO on vibe-coding era's solopreneur billionaires That rapid valuation growth reflects the rapidly expanding live commerce market, valued at upwards of $22 billion and of which Whatnot says it commands roughly 60% . But competition in that space is continuing to grow from e-commerce giants like eBay and Fanatics, as well as TikTok's Shop Live. Sign up for our weekly, original newsletter that goes beyond the annual Disruptor 50 list, offering a closer look at list-making companies and their innovative founders. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. More In CNBC Disruptor 50 2026 CNBC Disruptor 50 list: Why Anthropic was No. 1 in this year's rankings Julia Boorstin 2026 CNBC Disruptor 50: See the full list of companies, rankings, and a new leader in the AI race CNBC.com staff 2026 CNBC Disruptor 50 list: How we chose this year's companies David Spiegel Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by