Disney agrees deal to let TikTokers use its characters in videos - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Tech Disney agrees deal to let TikTokers use its films and TV shows in videos Image source, Pixar By Imran Rahman-Jones Technology reporter Published 5 August 2026 Disney and TikTok have agreed a deal which will allow creators to use clips from Disney films, including its subsidiaries, in their videos. It means clips from hit franchises like Star Wars, Toy Story and the Marvel Cinematic Universe will soon start popping up in videos - which will also be shared on Disney's short-form video platform, Verts. The scheme will be launched in the US before being rolled out to other countries. Neither company shared financial details of the agreement, although it follows the collapse of a $1bn (£745m) deal between Disney and OpenAI which would have let people use its characters in AI-generated videos. That agreement was cancelled in March when OpenAI shut down its AI video generation tool Sora, citing a decision to focus on other parts of its business. "Today, fans are celebrating our stories in entirely new ways," said Disney's chief marketing and brand officer Asad Ayaz, following the TikTok deal being announced. "Disney owns some of the world's biggest franchises but ownership of attention is shifting towards creators," social media expert Matt Navarra told BBC News. "Hollywood used to market at fans - now it needs to give fans the raw materials to market with it, and that is quite a profound shift." TikTok said its platform saw an average of 6.5 million posts relating to film and TV per day last year. Fans like to use clips from films and TV shows in their videos, but without express permission, they would often be taken down due to copyright claims. This makes it harder for a wide audience to engage with fan-created content around a big release. TikTok would also benefit from the "credibility of becoming a formal distribution partner to one of Hollywood's biggest studios," Navarra said. He added that TikTok's recommendation algorithm gives it the power to "influence which character or scene or forgotten franchise suddenly becomes very valuable again". Disney and TikTok said a jointly-run programme would boost some creators' videos and give them access to exclusive events. "This is a deal that repositions and recovers Disney in the UGC [user-generated content] space following the content gap left by the sudden collapse of Sora," Gareth Sutcliffe from Enders Analysis said. But he said it was not without risk. "There is an ongoing safety debate around TikTok under European online rules," he said. "At a minimum, Disney will need to employ significant guardrails to curate the creator content that is selected." Online creators and influencers are becoming more important to brands' marketing strategies. Last year, a report from Oxford Economics said YouTube content creators contributed £2.2bn to the UK economy in 2024 and supported 45,000 jobs. There is also a recognition that even very small influencers, who focus on niche topics, might have lower follower counts but come with a hyper-engaged audience . Disney launched its short form video platform Verts in the US in March, with plans to expand that further around the world. TikTok faces Ofcom investigation over child age checks Published 16 July Celebrity influencers paid up to £1m to advertise deodorant on Instagram Published 16 July Snapchat joins other popular platforms in fight against 'AI slop' Published 31 July Sign up for our Tech Decoded newsletter to follow the world's top tech stories and trends. Outside the UK? Sign up here . Related topics TikTok Social media Disney Film Television Social media influencers The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:28 BBC sees Israeli military presence in southern Lebanon. 00:01:28, play video BBC sees Israeli military presence in southern Lebanon 1:01 Ariana Grande thanks fans at final London show. 00:01:01, play video Ariana Grande thanks fans at final London show 1:29 What to do if you've been scammed. 00:01:29, play video What to do if you've been scammed 1:28 Masseuse says men treat her 'like a sex worker' 00:01:28, play video Masseuse says men treat her 'like a sex worker' 0:37 Sticky halloumi couscous bowl. 00:00:37, play video Sticky halloumi couscous bowl 0:57 Met Office: Summer 2026 was UK's hottest ever. 00:00:57, play video Met Office: Summer 2026 was UK's hottest ever 0:55 D4vd's celebrity lawyers withdraw from murder case. 00:00:55, play video D4vd's celebrity lawyers withdraw from murder case 0:57 Why has Keir Starmer quit as an MP? 00:00:57, play video Why has Keir Starmer quit as an MP? 1:05 Why Shein shares fell during its stock exchange debut. 00:01:05, play video Why Shein shares fell during its stock exchange debut 0:23 Moment Duane 'Keffe D' Davis found guilty of Tupac murder. 00:00:23, play video Moment Duane 'Keffe D' Davis found guilty of Tupac murder 0:54 Inside court for Tupac's murder trial verdict. 00:00:54, play video Inside court for Tupac's murder trial verdict 1:28 Millions of deportees forced to start over under Taliban. 00:01:28, play video Millions of deportees forced to start over under Taliban 1:10 'I'm on a mission to get people to work less' 00:01:10, play video 'I'm on a mission to get people to work less' 1:05 'I didn't give him up for adoption - he was taken' 00:01:05, play video 'I didn't give him up for adoption - he was taken' 1:06 Orangutans in danger as wildfires blaze Borneo. 00:01:06, play video Orangutans in danger as wildfires blaze Borneo 1:25 Why is it so hard to change someone's mind? 00:01:25, play video Why is it so hard to change someone's mind? 0:55 Amelia Dimoldenberg: 'We need to be opening doors for young people' 00:00:55, play video Amelia Dimoldenberg: 'We need to be opening doors for young people' 1:15 US and Iran trade strikes for first time in weeks. 00:01:15, play video US and Iran trade strikes for first time in weeks Top stories Iran attacks US bases in Middle East after reports US strike killed five at wedding party Published 2 minutes ago Charlie Kirk murder suspect pleads not guilty as judge clears way for death penalty trial Published 4 hours ago Live . Burnham to face first PMQs as adviser warns debt costs will force government to 'get real' 4127 viewing 4.1k viewing More to explore Chris Mason: Will Burnham find PMQs as 'nail biting' and 'nerve wracking' as Blair did? Israel expanding presence in Lebanon, officials say, as BBC visits occupied areas In the studio with Kasabian: 'We never thought we'd see success again' Soft launches and late sittings - six ways to get cheaper meals out Cup noodles made with cold water? BBC tries Japan's viral snack. Video Cup noodles made with cold water? BBC tries Japan's viral snack Will self-flying planes transform the skies? The Papers: 'Brexit and Thatcher to blame' and 'Hottest summer ever' Feeling nostalgic for summer? How to beat the back-to-work blues US Politics Unspun: Cut through the noise with Anthony Zurcher's newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Your first look at the new series of the Belfast-based police drama An enchanting concert of Alan Menken's greatest Disney hits Explore Kenya's spectacular birds of prey with Hamza How is real-world inequality coded into AI tools? Most read 1 Charlie Kirk murder suspect pleads not guilty as judge clears way for death penalty trial 2 'Brexit and Thatcher to blame' and 'Hottest summer ever' 3 US aircraft carrier docks near Thai beach resort Pattaya after record 250 days at sea 4 Ariana Grande completes tour and steps back from public life 5 Iran attacks US bases in Middle East after reports US strike killed five at wedding party 6 Fake 10 Downing Street listing exposes 'unfit' Booking.com, says consumer group 7 Chris Mason: Will Burnham find PMQs as 'nail biting' and 'nerve wracking' as Blair did? 8 Apple Maps renames Lake Ontario as Lake America after Trump order 9 Zelensky says airlines should avoid Russian airspace as Ukraine escalates drone operations 10 Children as young as six going to A&E in mental health crisis BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.