Bristol Airport flights cancelled and delayed after runway closure - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions Bristol Airport disruption a 'shambles' as flights restart Image source, Paul Smith Image caption, People were left trapped at Bristol Airport on Friday evening By Sarah Turnnidge Bristol Published 8 August 2026, 06:31 BST Updated 4 hours ago Widespread disruption continues at Bristol Airport after a runway defect saw all flights suspended. Hundreds of passengers were stranded after the airport's runway was closed from 18:00 BST on Friday until 08:00 on Saturday. While the runway has since reopened, the airport's website says the majority of flights are delayed or cancelled. A spokesperson for the airport apologised for any inconvenience caused and advised passengers to check the status of their flight with their airline. Dave Blackwell, travelling home from the Greek island of Rhodes, said it had been "a shambles" since his flight back to Bristol was diverted to Newcastle. "We were in Rhodes Airport for three hours with no information. Now we have all been told our flight is going to Newcastle and then a five or six-hour bus ride - why Newcastle? How appalling," he said. More from Bristol Will Saturday's mass ascent at the Bristol Balloon Fiesta go ahead? Late night flights suspended due to runway defect Published 19 hours ago Charges dropped in racially-aggravated assault case Published 22 hours ago No details on the nature of the runway defect have been released, but a spokesperson for the airport told the BBC it did not involve any aircraft. "We carry out regular inspections of the runway and that was when a defect was identified," they added. They said repairs were carried out overnight. 'Really poor' A number of people spoke to the BBC on Friday evening about their experience at the airport - among them Paul Smith, who was due to fly to Glasgow for his son's 20th birthday but had to cancel his trip. He said: "The communication, advice and support for passengers has been really poor." Image source, Finn Holland Image caption, Finn Holland was stranded in Bournemouth after his plane to Bristol was redirected Finn Holland, 18, who was stranded in Bournemouth after his plane to Bristol was redirected, said: "It was quite a long day. We got in around 06:00 this morning." He added: "We had to sort our own taxis back. It wasn't very organised". Are you waiting for a flight to or from Bristol Airport? Please use the form below to get in touch and tell us your experience. Get in touch Tell us which stories we should cover in Bristol Contact form Contact form Follow BBC Bristol on Facebook , external , X , external and Instagram , external . Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630 . Related topics Bristol Bristol Airport Air travel More on this story Late night flights suspended due to runway defect Published 19 hours ago Related internet links Bristol Airport The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:28 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update. 00:00:28, play video 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update 0:34 Up, up and away: Timelapse shows mass balloon ascent. 00:00:34, play video Up, up and away: Timelapse shows mass balloon ascent 1:17 The tech that could map every tree on earth. 00:01:17, play video The tech that could map every tree on earth 0:59 Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 00:00:59, play video Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 1:07 Riding England's longest zip wire. 00:01:07, play video Riding England's longest zip wire 1:21 How many different cubes can you make? 00:01:21, play video How many different cubes can you make? 2:01 Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape. 00:02:01, play video Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape 1:02 Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter. 00:01:02, play video Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter 1:17 What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:17, play video What we know about the Thailand school shooting 0:48 Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 00:00:48, play video Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 0:53 Are you hung up on hangers? 00:00:53, play video Are you hung up on hangers? 0:52 Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 00:00:52, play video Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 0:31 The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 00:00:31, play video The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 0:43 Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan. 00:00:43, play video Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan 0:33 Moment raiders drive car into service station. 00:00:33, play video Moment raiders drive car into service station 1:11 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 00:01:11, play video 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 0:39 How much rain will end the drought? 00:00:39, play video How much rain will end the drought? 1:43 Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment. 00:01:43, play video Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment 0:44 Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup. 00:00:44, play video Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup 1:00 What is 'food noise'? 00:01:00, play video What is 'food noise'? Top stories Simon Levy victims urged to come forward as police accused of 'litany of failures' Published 4 hours ago Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands Published 9 hours ago The phone book that led us to Assad's spy chief in hiding Published 16 hours ago More to explore I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock Pokémon hobby takes brothers to world championships 'We had to flee with just my daughter's clothes and dolls' Obesity rates have doubled in England since 1993 - what's going on? The 101-year-old who created a dolls' house museum with her childhood toys Artist's 'anger and frustration' with internet copycats The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC With great power comes great responsibility She's not a bad girl anymore, wink wink wink wink Can a test tell you what's living inside your gut? How much discipline is too much in school? Most read 1 Strictly dancers Ola and James Jordan separate after 23 years of marriage 2 I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock 3 Woman attacked by bed bugs during Travelodge stay 4 Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands 5 He's been frozen on Everest for 30 years, now 'Green Boots' may finally be coming home 6 Trump's ex-lawyer Todd Blanche narrowly confirmed as US attorney general 7 Digital cameras and wired earphones are back - and 'a bit more real' 8 Passengers 'stranded' at locked train station 9 How a former GB Olympian curbed his porn problem - and the signs and steps to recovery 10 Hunter Biden tells BBC his pardon was 'not good' for US or his father's legacy BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.