Falling oil prices help calm Wall Street's inflation worries Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 73°F Wednesday, September 2nd 2026 Today's Paper Home Page News News Business Best Reviews Crime & Public Safety Education Government & Politics Health National News World News Environment Local St. Paul Ramsey County Anoka County Washington County Dakota County Minnesota Wisconsin Sports Sports Minnesota Vikings Minnesota Twins Minnesota Wild Minnesota Timberwolves Minnesota Frost Minnesota Lynx Minnesota United FC College Sports Gophers Football St. Paul Saints Gophers Men’s Basketball High School Sports Outdoors Food Restaurants, Food and Drink Restaurant news Restaurant reviews Restaurant lists Recipes Takeout Things to Do Things to Do Books Movies & TV Arts Music and Concerts Restaurants, Food and Drink Theater Travel Treasure Hunt Winter Carnival State Fair Home & Garden Events Opinion Editorials Letters to the Editor Opinion Columnists Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary BestReviews Branded Content Paid Content by Brandpoint Subscribe Log In Logout Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Sign Up to submit an obituary To share the story of your loved one, you can submit an obituary using any of the following methods: Email : Please include the information from our Obituary Checklist (referenced below) to obits@pioneerpress.com . Online : Use our Self-Service Portal for a step-by-step guided process. Need assistance? Our obituary desk is here to help. Please call us at 651-228-5263 with any questions regarding the process or deadlines. General Information: Your full name, Address (City, State, Zip Code), Phone number, And an alternate phone number (if any) Obituary Specification: Name of Deceased, Obituary Text, A photo in a JPEG or PDF file is preferable, TIF and other files are accepted, we will contact you if there are any issues with the photo. Ad Run dates There is a discount for running more than one day, but this must be scheduled on the first run date to apply. If a photo is used, it must be used for both days for the discount to apply, contact us for more information. Policies: Verification of Death: In order to publish obituaries a name and phone number of funeral home/cremation society is required. We must contact the funeral home/cremation society handling the arrangements during their business hours to verify the death. If the body of the deceased has been donated to the University of Minnesota Anatomy Bequest Program, or a similar program, their phone number is required for verification. Please allow enough time to contact them especially during their limited weekend hours. A death certificate is also acceptable for this purpose but only one of these two options are necessary. Guestbook and Outside Websites: We are not allowed to reference other media sources with a guestbook or an obituary placed elsewhere when placing an obituary in print and online. We may place a website for a funeral home or a family email for contact instead; contact us with any questions regarding this matter. Obituary Process: Once your submission is completed, we will fax or email a proof for review prior to publication in the newspaper. This proof includes price and days the notice is scheduled to appear. Please review the proof carefully. We must be notified of errors or changes before the notice appears in the Pioneer Press based on each day’s deadlines. After publication, we will not be responsible for errors that may occur after final proofing. Online: Changes to an online obituary can be handled through the obituary desk. Call us with further questions. Payment Procedure: Pre-payment is required for all obituary notices prior to publication by the deadline specified below in our deadline schedule. Please call 651-228-5263 with your payment information after you have received the proof and approved its contents. Credit Card: Payment accepted by phone only due to PCI (Payment Card Industry) regulations EFT: Check by phone. Please provide your routing number and account number. Rates: The minimum charge is $162 for the first 12 lines. Every line after the first 12 is $12. If the ad is under 12 lines it will be charged the minimum rate of $162. Obituaries including more than 40 lines will receive a 7.5% discount per line. On a second run date, receive a 20% discount off both the first and second placement. Place three obituaries and the third placement will be free of charge. Each photo published is $125 per day. For example: 2 photos in the paper on 2 days would be 4 photo charges at $500. Deadlines: Please follow deadline times to ensure your obituary is published on the day requested. Hours Deadline (no exceptions) Ad Photos MONDAY – FRIDAY 9:00AM – 5:00 PM Next Day Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 3:45PM Make changes by 4:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 4:00PM SATURDAYS 10:00AM – 2:00PM Sunday Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 1:30PM Make changes by 2:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 1:30PM SUNDAYS CLOSED MEMORIAM (NON-OBITUARY) REQUEST Unlike an obituary, Memoriam submissions are remembrances of a loved one who has passed. The rates for a memoriam differ from obituaries. Please call or email us for more memoriam information Please call 651-228-5280 for more information. HOURS: Monday – Friday 8:00AM – 5:00PM (CLOSED WEEKENDS and HOLIDAYS) Please submit your memoriam ad to memoriams@pioneerpress.com or call 651-228-5280. Business | US stocks rally near a record as falling oil… Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email More Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Pinterest Share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Tumblr Submit to Stumbleupon (Opens in new window) Submit to Stumbleupon Subscribe Log In Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Sign Up Subscribe Log In Search 73°F Wednesday, September 2nd 2026 Today's Paper Business Business Crime Education Government & Politics Health Nation Environment OUR PICKS: Free stuff at the Fair Fair foods, reviewed Fair drinks, reviewed Fair coffee, analyzed Lake Monster Brewing Swede Hollow Cafe space Business US stocks rally near a record as falling oil prices ease Wall Street’s worries about inflation Brent crude's price fell 4.7% after President Donald Trump said he would hold off on ordering new strikes against Iran. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email More Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Pinterest Share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Tumblr Submit to Stumbleupon (Opens in new window) Submit to Stumbleupon A trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, Thursday, July 30, 2026, in New York. (AP Photo/Yuki Iwamura) By Associated Press PUBLISHED: August 3, 2026 at 7:29 AM CDT | UPDATED: August 3, 2026 at 3:30 PM CDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... By STAN CHOE, AP Business Writer NEW YORK (AP) — The U.S. stock market rallied to the edge of its all-time high on Monday after easing oil prices helped calm Wall Street’s worries that inflation could get even worse. The S&P 500 jumped 1.5% and is just 0.1% below its record set earlier this summer. It was coming off a frenetic July , where it swung up and down as oil prices shot higher because of the war with Iran , before ultimately ending the month just about where it started. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which measures a narrower slice of the U.S. stock market, climbed 693 points, or 1.3%, to an all-time high, while the Nasdaq composite leaped 2.1%. Stocks got a lift as the price for a barrel of Brent crude sank 4.7% to $83.77. It dropped after President Donald Trump said over the weekend that he decided to hold off on new strikes against Iran at the urging of allies in the region. Brent’s price careened between $72 and $102 last month as worries rose and fell about when the war with Iran would allow oil tankers to freely exit the Persian Gulf again to deliver crude to customers worldwide. The latest acquiescence by Trump helped to ease worries about the global flow of crude, and Treasury yields correspondingly fell in the bond market. The yield on the 10-year Treasury sank to 4.68% from 4.75% late Friday. It, though, remains well above its 3.97% level from before the war with Iran. Higher yields threaten to undercut prices for stocks and other investments, while slowing the economy by making borrowing more expensive for U.S. households and businesses. The average long-term U.S. mortgage rate has already leaped to its highest level in a year. Monday’s ease in oil prices helped airlines and other companies with big fuel bills lead the market. United Airlines flew 5.8% higher, while American Airlines climbed 5%. Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings steamed 6.6% higher. Boeing jumped 8% after U.S. regulators certified its 737 MAX-7 planes , clearing them for commercial service. Tyson Foods rose 2.8% after the meat company reported a slightly stronger profit for the spring than analysts expected. CEO Donnie King said strength is continuing in the company’s chicken business and its prepared foods, which include brands like Jimmy Dean and Hillshire Farm. It joined a lengthening list of big U.S. companies to deliver a bigger profit for the spring than analysts expected. That’s imperative for Wall Street because stock prices tend to follow the path of corporate earnings over the long term, and worries were rising that U.S. stock prices may have broadly already shot too high. Companies in the S&P 500 are on track to deliver earnings per share for the spring that are 47% higher than a year before, according to FactSet, with more than half of the companies in the index having already reported. If that ends up being the case, it would be the strongest growth since the spring of 2021, when the economy was roaring out of the COVID pandemic. Also offering encouragement for profits was a report on Monday showing that growth for U.S. manufacturing accelerated to its strongest level since 2022. Keeping Wall Street unsettled, though, were swings for stocks of companies that make computer chips. They’ve been veering up and down for weeks on worries about whether their surging revenues because of the artificial-intelligence boom are sustainable. If AI ends up producing less profit and productivity than hoped, Big Tech companies could curtail their spending sprees on data centers that have helped chip stocks soar to tremendous heights. Micron Technology went from a drop of 6.4% to a gain of 1.7% through the day before ending with a gain of 0.8%, for example. It’s up roughly 190% for the year so far. All told, the S&P 500 rose 110.78 points to 7,600.50 and finished just shy of its all-time closing high of 7,609.78. The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 693.38 to 53,178.41, and the Nasdaq composite rallied 540.04 to 25,913.90. Related Articles Bessent pitches US-backed financial literacy competition to world’s largest economies Why bond yields are rising and why everyone should care Bessent says 19 finance ministers agreed ‘cheap exports’ are unsustainable, but China dissented For a century, journalists have had a voluntary ethics code. Editors are giving it an AI-era reboot Sheriff’s sale allows John Rupp 6 months to reacquire W.A. Frost building The manic swings for AI stocks have been most dramatic in South Korea, where the Kospi index is dominated by just two tech titans, Samsung Electronics and SK Hynix . Seoul’s Kospi fell 5.1% Monday, coming off Friday’s 17.9% surge that was its best day in history. In neighboring Japan, Tokyo’s Nikkei 225 fell 0.9% after the United States and Japan confirmed they had moved together to prop up the value of the Japanese yen against the dollar. A stronger yen would help to limit inflation in Japan, but it could also potentially hurt Japan’s exporters. AP Writers Matt Ott, Elaine Kurtenbach, Mayuko Ono and Mari Yamaguchi contributed to this report. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email More Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Pinterest Share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Tumblr Submit to Stumbleupon (Opens in new window) Submit to Stumbleupon Most Popular Most Popular ‘Unimaginable heartbreak,’ family says after woman, her 2 sons found dead in Inver Grove Heights 'Unimaginable heartbreak,' family says after woman, her 2 sons found dead in Inver Grove Heights Inver Grove Heights deaths called murder-suicide; crowd gathers to remember family Inver Grove Heights deaths called murder-suicide; crowd gathers to remember family Vikings release Max Brosmer less than 24 hours after he made the team Vikings release Max Brosmer less than 24 hours after he made the team Gluten free at the Minnesota State Fair? Here are 11 suggestions. Gluten free at the Minnesota State Fair? Here are 11 suggestions. Concert review: James and Noone bring disparate sounds of the ‘60s to the Grandstand Concert review: James and Noone bring disparate sounds of the ‘60s to the Grandstand Sheriff’s sale allows John Rupp 6 months to reacquire W.A. Frost building Sheriff's sale allows John Rupp 6 months to reacquire W.A. Frost building Jury convicts ex-Oakdale teacher of repeatedly sexually assaulting girl in St. Anthony Jury convicts ex-Oakdale teacher of repeatedly sexually assaulting girl in St. Anthony St. Paul: Sauna company plans to move into former Swede Hollow Cafe space St. Paul: Sauna company plans to move into former Swede Hollow Cafe space Who did the Vikings sign to their practice squad? Here’s a look Who did the Vikings sign to their practice squad? Here's a look Two teens, 13 and 14, injured in St. Paul shooting Two teens, 13 and 14, injured in St. Paul shooting More in Business Bessent pitches US-backed financial literacy competition to world’s largest economies Why bond yields are rising and why everyone should care Bessent says 19 finance ministers agreed ‘cheap exports’ are unsustainable, but China dissented For a century, journalists have had a voluntary ethics code. Editors are giving it an AI-era reboot Sheriff’s sale allows John Rupp 6 months to reacquire W.A. Frost building Oil giant Chevron is expected to announce it will expand operations in Venezuela, US official says 2026 August 3 Subscribe Digital Subscription FAQ Today’s Paper Obituaries Comics Sitemap Contact Us Newsroom Contacts Pioneer Press Store Photo reprints Manage my account Privacy Policy Accessibility Home News Sports Opinion Things to Do Marketplace Autos Homes Jobs Work With Us Advertise with us Network Advertising Special Advertising Sections Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright 2026 Twin Cities. All rights reserved. The use of any content on this website for the purpose of training artificial intelligence systems, algorithms, machine learning models, text and data mining, or similar use is strictly prohibited without explicit written consent. Close