How parents and pupils took on 'cruel', 'authoritarian' schools - and won - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions How parents and pupils took on 'cruel', 'authoritarian' schools - and won Image caption, Amelia's mother, Kayley (r), says strict school policies resulted in her daughter becoming ill By Richard Bilton BBC Panorama Published 3 August 2026 To avoid getting into trouble, 14-year-old Amelia says she decided to stop drinking water at school so she would not need the toilet. Her school, Camborne Science and International Academy in Cornwall, had introduced strict disciplinary policies, which included limiting toilet visits during classes, according to pupils and former teachers. New discipline rules were implemented when the school was taken over in January 2024 by the Athena Learning Trust, which runs six secondary schools in Devon and Cornwall. Amelia's mother, Kayley, believes these strict policies resulted in her daughter becoming ill from a series of serious infections caused by not drinking. Hundreds of parents, including Kayley, have campaigned against the way Athena run its schools. Across Devon and Cornwall, there have been public meetings, school-gate protests and online petitions. Local MPs and councillors have also backed concerned parents. The opposition to Athena now appears to have paid off - with the trust announcing last month that it was planning to disband and transfer all its schools to other trusts. It said that trustees had "listened carefully to feedback" and recognised the "clear need for change". BBC Panorama has spoken to nearly 100 pupils, parents and former teachers from Athena schools, who say levels of discipline went too far. Many pupils and parents queued to talk to us at two town hall meetings we arranged. The way the schools had been run was "authoritarian" and "cruel", some said. "You're constantly scared you're going to do something wrong," one student with ADHD told us, while a former music teacher said the strict discipline had meant his lessons were taught in silence. Image caption, Camborne Science and International Academy is one of six schools run by the Athena Learning Trust Athena is not the only academy trust that has enforced strict discipline. There are those who argue that education built on tough discipline and high expectations can benefit pupils - and exam results at Athena-run schools have improved. About 20% of the school day in England is lost to bad behaviour, the government says. The benefits of a "high level of strictness" is that students understand what is expected of them, says the government advisor on behaviour in schools in England, Tom Bennett. Commenting generally, rather than on individual academies, he told us that pupils soon realise they have to get into the habit of meeting expectations. However, there is growing concern that punitive disciplinary practices at some schools in England are damaging children. Britain’s Strictest Schools How much discipline is too much? Panorama investigates the academy trust where classrooms are silent and pupils can be sent to detention for looking out of the window. Watch on iPlayer now or on Monday 3 August at 20:00 on BBC One. Watch on iPlayer Athena's secondary schools are attended by about 6,500 children. In the past three years, more than 500 children have left to be educated at home, according to Cornwall and Devon county councils. Amelia is one of them. While at Camborne, Amelia would often come home with the bottle of water she had left with in the morning still full. When Kayley asked Amelia why, she says her daughter would reply that she had not drunk anything all day, "so I wouldn't need to go to the toilet". Camborne has strict rules around toilet visits during lessons. Pupils were not allowed to go to the toilet in the first or last 15 minutes of a lesson, and were only allowed to go in the middle of a lesson at the teacher's discretion, pupils and former teachers told us. On school days, Amelia would only drink after school and in the evening. Kayley believes her daughter's fear of breaking the rules ended up making her ill. "She's now on antibiotics, she's had water infections, she has got scarring on her kidneys because of this," Kayley says. Amelia says her time at Camborne "makes me feel ill, even thinking of it". Athena told Panorama that staff work hard to "support children to remain in education" and "support access to toilets during lessons" through professional staff judgement. Image caption, Former teacher at Launceston, Brian Maywood, initially welcomed the changes brought in by Athena Academies are independent, state-funded schools, that receive their funding directly from central government, rather than through a local authority. They have independent control over their own admissions, curriculum and staff pay. There are no academy trusts in Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland, but more than 80% of secondary schools in England are now run by them. Multi-academy trusts like Athena oversee a network of schools. Athena's reports from the regulator, Ofsted, have mostly been positive. Brian Maywood used to be the head of Launceston College in north Cornwall and was an English teacher there when Athena took over. Initially he welcomed the trust's highly disciplined approach, and was pleased the school was "moving into a new way of learning". But his opinion quickly shifted, he says, once he witnessed how the children were treated, calling it a "dictatorship". The way students were spoken to at times "made me really, really uncomfortable", he adds. He left the school last summer because of these reasons, he says. It was the same for the former head of art, Estelle Pears. "There is discipline and then there is being oppressed," she says. "It sounds dramatic, but that's what it became. "If you're frightened of moving a pencil on a desk because you will get a sanction, that's beyond discipline." Image caption, Ieuan Horgan, who taught music at Launceston, said his classes had to be in silence Former Athena teachers who spoke to Panorama said they were forced to uphold the strict rules by the trust and that some made little sense. Ieuan Horgan says his music lessons had to be taught in silence. "At the start of the lesson, I would go through how to play the musical notation, and then the lesson would just be silent focus on trying to learn this musical notation," he says. "They pushed for 100% distraction and disruption-free lessons - and 100% silent focus - in a music lesson." Pupils have told Panorama they could be punished for minor offences and Bethany, who has just finished her GCSEs at Camborne, describes the strict and regimented approach as "demoralising" and "like you're being talked to like you were a primary school kid". Athena schools have a two-strike policy: a warning for one mistake, sent out of the class for the second. Students then go to what is called "reflection" - a room where they work in silence from workbooks. At Launceston College there were about 1,000 cases a month of pupils being sent to "reflection" rooms between September 2025 and March 2026, according to figures released by the trust. Athena says reflection rooms are "supervised environments" where "students continue their learning independently". It says it does not have a rigid two strikes policy and the "vast majority of students spend little or no time in these spaces". Students are not normally punished for isolated minor issues, it adds. Image caption, Jack, who has special educational needs, was regularly sent to reflection and suspended, his mother says Some parents say children with special educational needs and disabilities are disproportionately affected by Athena's strict policies. April, whose son Jack has special educational needs and has just finished his GCSEs at Ilfracombe Academy, says he was sent to reflection countless times. He could not cope with the regimented environment, she says. "Just to look out the window to refocus, that's not harming any of the other children or their education within the room - but that's enough to be sent out, because that's him not focusing on the teacher." Jack was also suspended - sent home from school - dozens of times. He is far from alone. The suspension rate at Ilfracombe Academy was almost five times higher than the average in England, according to government figures for 2023 to 2025. At Camborne, it was about five times higher than the average and three times higher at Launceston, according to the same figures. Athena says suspensions are reserved for "serious or repeated breaches of behaviour expectations" and that rates have fallen significantly in the past year. Image caption, Zara says her autistic daughter Hannah, who has hearing difficulties and attends Ilfracombe Academy, was repeatedly removed from class April and Jack's concerns were echoed at our town-hall events. More than half of the dozens of parents and pupils who turned up were concerned about the impact on students with special educational needs. Finn, a student at Camborne with ADHD, says it was a difficult environment for neurodiverse pupils. "You're constantly scared that you're going to do something wrong," he says. Faye, whose son has special educational needs and attends Pool Academy, says he had spent 96 hours in reflection the past school year. "Day in, day out, he feels like he's failing," she says. And Zara says her autistic daughter Hannah, who has hearing difficulties and attends Ilfracombe Academy, was repeatedly removed from class because her needs were not recognised. "Behaviour is just put down to persistent defiance and bad behaviour, and they're punished for it," she says. "It's never recognised as being linked to their disabilities." Athena told us that children with special educational needs are "not routinely sanctioned for behaviours associated with their needs". A lot of the anger we heard in Devon and Cornwall is, we were told, down to the lack of accountability. Academy trusts do not have any supervision from local councils, meaning only central government can intervene. One of the biggest weaknesses of the trust system is that it complicates the complaints process, says education journalist Laura McInerney, who co-founded Teacher Tapp, an app designed to track educators' wellbeing, classroom practices, and opinions on education policy. If parents are not satisfied with a specific school's response, she says, they have to contact the trust, which could be miles way, and which "you may or may not hear from in anything other than a letter". The government says parents can take complaints about academy trusts to the Department for Education. Across England, there is growing concern about punitive disciplinary practices in schools. The BBC's File on 4 Investigates recently found that a school in Wakefield, West Yorkshire, put a pupil in an isolation booth away from the classroom for more than half an academic year. Pupil put in isolation booth for more than half a school year, BBC learns A safeguarding review last year also found an east London school's zero-tolerance policy involved pupils being routinely humiliated by shouting and prioritised control above all else, leaving some children with lasting psychological harm. A team at law firm Leigh Day is now investigating potential legal claims on behalf of 50 families who believe their children may have been subjected to excessive or inappropriate disciplinary measures while at school. However, there are many who argue that education built on tough discipline and high expectations can benefit pupils. The government's advisor on behaviour, Tom Bennett, told us that discipline is vital, including for children with special educational needs. "If you've got, for example, ADHD or an anxiety disorder, what you need more than anybody else is a calm, safe, dignified environment. Otherwise, you'll be massively distracted by the environment round about you," Bennett says. Image caption, Bethany says the Athena trust has caused "incredible harm" In Devon and Cornwall, parents appear to have won in their campaign against Athena. In May, the head of the trust, who implemented the tough discipline, resigned. Last month, the trust announced it was planning to disband. In a statement, Athena said it had "listened carefully" and recognised the "clear need for change". It said it would work with the Department for Education to "identify alternative trusts" to which the schools could transfer. Until then, Athena will keep running the schools. The Department for Education told Panorama the allegations about Athena are "serious and concerning" and that it is "taking robust action to make sure the trust improves" ahead of the schools transferring. The trust is now "subject to enhanced monitoring" to make sure its "approach to pupil behaviour is reasonable and proportionate", it says. Bethany says the school has caused "incredible harm". "They need to change the way that they're thinking they can teach students as a one-size-fits-all." Get our flagship newsletter with all the headlines you need to start the day. Sign up here. Related topics Cornwall Devon Academies The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:49 Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales. 00:00:49, play video Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales 0:59 The city closing down streets so children can play. 00:00:59, play video The city closing down streets so children can play 1:23 The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII. 00:01:23, play video The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII 0:37 Crispy butter beans with whipped feta. 00:00:37, play video Crispy butter beans with whipped feta 0:57 Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites. 00:00:57, play video Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens Top stories Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at Army teen college Published 4 hours ago Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns Published 3 hours ago Live . Fifa latest: Infantino remains president after tumultuous period 3657 viewing 3.7k viewing More to explore Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear in the office? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Rihanna is 'in the studio', says partner A$AP Rocky Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Families' anger at jailed funeral boss's apology letter Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Love shouldn't feel like fear How hydrated do you really need to be? Melvin Odoom on the MiniDiscs he can't throw away The origin story of the first Comic Con Most read 1 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 2 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at Army teen college 3 Meta becomes latest firm to say its AI hacked another company 4 Why phones on loudspeaker may become just another noise 5 Families' anger at jailed funeral boss's apology letter 6 Iran says deal with Oman on Strait of Hormuz is in final stages 7 Car washes and vape shops can still sponsor skilled foreign workers despite visa changes 8 'Plagiarism row professor resigns' and 'West End stab rampage' 9 The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon 10 Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear in the office? BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.