Appeals court says Congress must ok White House ballroom : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Appeals court says Congress must ok White House ballroom A federal appeals court says above-ground construction cannot continue without approval from Congress, siding with historic preservation advocates. Politics Another court blocks White House ballroom work, teeing up a Supreme Court review August 7, 2026 2:10 PM ET By Rachel Treisman Construction has continued on the White House ballroom all summer, as seen on Wednesday. Tierney L. Cross/AP hide caption toggle caption Tierney L. Cross/AP A federal appeals court ordered the Trump administration to halt construction on its White House ballroom, saying the project needs approval from Congress in order to continue. "Whether or not a massive ballroom should be constructed is for Congress to decide and is not a matter for Executive self-help," the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit wrote in a 136-page ruling issued Friday. History How presidents have changed the White House — and how Trump's ballroom is different The three-judge panel issued a 2-1 ruling, but it says it will stay its order for two weeks to allow the Trump administration to appeal to the Supreme Court. NPR has reached out to the White House for comment but did not hear back in time for publication. President Trump slammed the decision within two hours, calling it "horrendous, politically motivated and unlawful." He wrote on Truth Social that his administration will appeal immediately. He pointed out that the two judges who sided against him in the ruling were appointed by Democratic presidents: Barack Obama and Joe Biden. Sponsor Message Trump also repeated his administration's argument that the ballroom is a matter of national security, and that Friday's ruling threatens it. The decision "severely jeopardizes the lives and welfare of the people who work, and will be working, at the White House — including all future Presidents of the United States, and their families, as well as the lives of all those visiting, such as Heads of State and other Dignitaries, and all Americans who wish to visit the historic, beautiful Executive Mansion," Trump wrote. Politics Trump's ballroom fight sheds new light on an underground White House bunker The nonprofit National Trust for Historic Preservation, chartered by Congress, which brought the lawsuit late last year, celebrated the ruling. "This is a great day for our country and for the American people's right to voice their opinions about the historic places they cherish, including the White House," Brent Leggs, its president and CEO, said in a statement shared with NPR. Friday's ruling is the latest chapter in a saga that began in October, when the Trump administration started demolishing the East Wing of the White House to make way for Trump's long-held dream of a presidential ballroom. The administration has said the ballroom will total roughly 90,000 square feet and seat 1,000 guests. The White House originally estimated the cost at $200 million, but the Washington Post reported in June — citing contractors' invoices — that the total cost could be at least $600 million. Sponsor Message The National Trust for Historic Preservation sued the administration in December, seeking to halt construction until the government completed the legally mandated review process, which includes obtaining approval from Congress. "From the beginning, our position has been clear and consistent: the law states that only Congress can authorize the construction of a ballroom at the White House," Leggs said on Friday. The Trump administration has argued that the case has no legal standing, and that stopping construction has implications for national security. The legal fight has revealed new details about the mysterious bunker beneath the East Wing : Trump said the "military is building a big complex" under the would-be ballroom. The administration has pointed to high-profile threats in the months since — like the White House Correspondents' Dinner shooting — to paint the ballroom as a national security issue. Politics The park service says Trump's arch would obstruct historic sites. Could it be moved? "The single, integrated project includes Bomb Shelters, State of the Art Hospital and Medical Facilities, Protective Partitioning, Top Secret Military Facilities, Structures and Equipment, Protective Missile Resistant Steel, Columns, Roofs, and Beams, Drone Proof Ceilings and Roofs, Military Grade Venting, and Bullet, Ballistic, and Blast Proof Glass. It is all tied together as one big, expensive, and very complex unit, which is vital for National Security and Military Operations of the United States of America!" Trump wrote on Friday. Senate Republicans originally proposed adding $1 billion in taxpayer security funding for the ballroom as part of a sweeping immigration and border security package in May, but ultimately dropped that provision after significant bipartisan backlash . In the meantime, Trump's efforts to put his mark on D.C. — and weaken federal protections for historic sites — continue. Several, such as his proposed triumphal arch , face legal challenges of their own. White House ballroom trump administration Congress Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Trump targets birthright citizenship. And, Iran aims to ban U.S. from Strait of Hormuz Politics Senate passes Russia sanctions bill that was long championed by Lindsey Graham Family Amid cost of living stress, many parents are supporting children well into adulthood Economy Trump renews push to fire Fed Governor Lisa Cook Politics Senate votes to confirm Todd Blanche as attorney general Foo Fighters: Tiny Desk Concert More Stories From NPR Immigration Private prisons announce $1.4 billion in revenue as immigration detentions climb Elections Data centers are a political issue crossing party lines, driving voters to candidates Politics Senate votes to confirm Todd Blanche as attorney general Politics Senate passes Russia sanctions bill that was long championed by Lindsey Graham Politics Blanche's path to confirmation appears clear after winning key Republican's support National Trump signs new orders targeting birthright citizenship, weeks after Supreme Court ruling Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Shots - Health News Take The ACE Quiz — And Learn What It Does And Doesn't Mean Family Amid cost of living stress, many parents are supporting children well into adulthood Up First Newsletter Trump targets birthright citizenship. And, Iran aims to ban U.S. from Strait of Hormuz Real Talk With a Doc Everyone's talking about hormone therapy for menopause. Should I be on it? Movie Reviews The new movie about Anthony Bourdain is none of the things you fear it could be Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after NPR Editors' Picks The Ripple Effect How Jim James and Jeff Tweedy learned to love the Grateful Dead Economy Trump renews push to fire Fed Governor Lisa Cook The Americas Colombia's new president vows to remake the country — and challenge rebel groups Economy Employers unexpectedly cut 23,000 jobs in a sign of a wilting labor market Music Can Role Model move past his viral moment by leaning into authenticity? Global Health A new vaccine could vanquish a major cause of deadly diarrheal disease Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices