Most detailed images ever taken of sun's surface revealed: "Major step forward" - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Space Most detailed images ever taken of sun's surface revealed: "Major step forward" August 5, 2026 / 8:55 PM EDT / CBS/AP Add CBS News on Google Scientists have captured images of the sun's surface in the finest detail yet, revealing a strange and dynamic facade. It's dangerous to look directly at the sun without proper eye protection. But researchers were able to peek at its scorching surface with the help of the National Science Foundation's Daniel K. Inouye Solar Telescope , located on the island of Maui in Hawaii. Scientists originally took the images for a different reason: to fine-tune and test the limits of the telescope. But when they looked at the results, they realized they'd photographed the sun's bright outer shell at higher resolution than ever before. What's more, they saw strange feathery patterns rippling across the surface. The images "reveal a solar landscape unlike any that had been seen before, uncovering small-scale and dynamic swirls everywhere at the edges of magnetic areas," the NSF's National Solar Observatory said in a news release. This undated image provided by the NSF National Solar Observatory on Aug. 3, 2026, shows the sun's surface. National Science Foundation National Solar Observatory via AP "That reminds me of famous paintings, like the swirling skies in Van Gogh's Starry Night," said solar physicist Ruizhu Chen with Stanford University, who was not involved with the new research. Researchers saw ripples of instability on the sun's surface caused by bits of magnetized plasma moving past each other at different speeds — similar to waves that stir when a gust of wind blows over water. It's a well-known phenomenon called the Kelvin-Helmholtz instability (KHI) that guides how fluids move. This has been glimpsed on Earth and other planets like Jupiter and Saturn, but "it has not been observed ever at that level on the solar surface," according to study co-author Friedrich Wöger with the National Solar Observatory. Dr. David Boboltz, deputy director at the National Solar Observatory, said the discovery, "backed up by analysis of numerical simulations, is a major step forward in our understanding of the dynamics and evolution of solar and stellar plasma, and will serve as a basis for future discoveries." The findings were published Wednesday in the journal Nature . Scientists are curious about the sun's inner workings to better track massive bursts of energy called coronal mass ejections that can hurl toward Earth. When they hit, they can trigger solar storms, potentially scrambling GPS communications and producing colorful auroras. "To understand the dynamic space weather that affects Earth, we have to see the small-scale processes driving it," said Dr. Jacqueline Keane, NSF program director for the National Solar Observatory. "For decades, seeing these vortices at such tiny scales remained elusive. By pairing a massive four-meter mirror with state-of-the-art optics and instruments, the NSF Inouye Solar Telescope delivers the resolving power needed to reveal these ultrafine details for the first time, enabling discoveries that were once beyond our reach." Space & Astronomy More SpaceX rocket booster slams into moon, creating crater that could be 16 feet deep Russian Soyuz brings three home after 8 months at space station SpaceX's Super Heavy-Starship blasts off on 13th test flight Meteorite that hit home contains "alien world chemistry," experts say Russian Soyuz rocket launches fresh crew to space station Go deeper with The Free Press Buried by Snow—and by Shaky Science Bad Science In: Earth Hawaii Science © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report. Webb Telescope captures images of exoplanet Images of newly discovered exoplanet captured by James Webb Telescope 00:25 Images of newly discovered exoplanet captured by James Webb Telescope (00:25) Red alert issued for major Italian cities as heat wave grips Europe, sets Austria record WWII explosives detonate in France amid wildfires: "Sound of war" Can debt collectors re-age an old debt? 5 things to know now Buried by Snow—and by Shaky Science Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue