Meta told to pay another $567m in New Mexico child safety lawsuit - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Tech Meta fined $567m in largest child safety ruling against social media giant Image source, Wally Skalij / Getty Images Image caption, Meta boss Mark Zuckerberg has seen his company face an increasing number of lawsuits over child safety - pictured here after testifying at a Los Angeles court in a separate case in February By Kali Hays and Liv McMahon , Technology reporters Published 7 August 2026, 00:34 BST Updated 43 minutes ago A US judge in New Mexico has ordered Meta to pay another $567m (£421m) for its failure to warn the public about dangers its platforms posed to children, marking the largest fine against the company over child safety. Judge Bryan Biedscheid said the social media giant is a "public nuisance" akin to air pollution and that it must put the money in a fund aimed at reducing future harms. Thursday's ruling is in addition to $375m in fines Meta was already ordered to pay in the case, for a total of $942m. Judge Biedscheid compared Meta to a factory, with advertising and content as its product and "the psychological harm and sexual exploitation of children to be the pollution that must be abated". A spokesman for Meta, which owns and operates Instagram, Facebook, WhatsApp and Threads, said Thursday: "We disagree with the ruling and will appeal." "We work hard to keep people safe on our platforms and have been transparent about the challenges of identifying and removing bad actors and harmful content," they added. "We remain confident in our record of protecting teens online and will continue to defend ourselves against claims that misrepresent the facts." Regarding the earlier $375m verdict in the case, Meta had said it intended to appeal the ruling and gave a similar explanation. It was the first time that a state had successfully sued Meta over child safety issues. Meta is currently facing thousands of lawsuits in the US over similar issues. In addition to the New Mexico rulings, Meta earlier this year lost a landmark case in Los Angeles which found it could be held liable for building addictive platforms . Bruce Daisley, a former European vice president of Twitter (now X), told BBC Radio 4's Today programme the New Mexico fine, while large, was "a drop in the ocean" for Meta. In its latest financial results , the social media giant posted $61bn in revenue from April to June - up 28% on the same period a year ago. "But it's an indication that we are moving to a stage where social media is going to be tackled around the world," he said. Meanwhile, former safeguarding minister Jess Phillips told Today she believed US court challenges against big tech could enable the UK to take tougher action - without fearing it may damage UK-US diplomatic ties. Pollution comparisons The New Mexico case stems from a 2023 lawsuit brought by state attorneys. It argued Meta should be held liable for the way in which its platforms endangered children and exposed them to sexually explicit material and contact with sexual predators. In the first phase of the trial, Meta was found to have repeatedly violated New Mexico's Unfair Practices Act as its recommendation algorithms essentially "steered" young users toward harmful content and contacts. Recommendation algorithms are the tools that Meta uses to automatically curate the content a user sees on its platforms. In ruling on this second phase of the trial, Judge Biedscheid found that Meta's harms reached the level of "public nuisance" - or an issue of health and safety that has become so widespread it is negatively impacting a general public. In addition to being the largest fine Meta has received over child safety issues, the ruling also appears to be the first time that a social media company has been deemed a public nuisance. Image source, Getty Images Image caption, The methods social media companies use to keep young users engaged has been facing more scrutiny than ever In his ruling, the judge compared the "harmful effects" of the company's platforms on children to that the way in which "noxious pollution produced by the factory can harm the common public right to reasonably clean air". Rather than remain confined to its platforms, he said, these effects "migrate to the internet as a whole and, perhaps most concerning, to the real world". These in turn create "a common, societal burden on and harm to the affected children and their families," as well as schools, hospitals and law enforcement, he said. Further measures The fund that Meta has been ordered to create will be used to pay for efforts to mitigate "the wide-ranging impacts of the harm", Judge Biedscheid said. A vast majority of the money, totaling $420m, will go towards treatment of harms Meta's platforms have already caused, through the funding of "appropriate clinical or other behavioral health programs and professionals," according to the order. Another chunk of the money will go towards training around awareness and prevention, including for teachers and health professionals on how to deal with social media harms against children. The judge also ordered Meta to enact other measures, including ensuring that no account of a user under age 18 is recommended to an adult and that no adult can message an underage user. In addition, Meta was ordered to: Ban underage users from sending or receiving nudity Enact a "1-strike policy for adult users who engage in child sexual exploitation" Eliminate "like" counts for users under 18 Ban push notifications for such users every day between 10:00 PM to 7:00 AM and to ban such notifications during the typical school year between 8:00 AM to 3:00 PM, except on weekends Implement a mandatory usage limit for such users of 90 cumulative hours per month across Instagram and Facebook, or about three hours per day The UK and EU also want platforms including Meta take similar steps to protect children on their sites, with recent efforts focusing on repairing mechanisms through which children can be seen or contacted online . But many countries are also forging ahead with plans to ban children from social media entirely. The UK recently said in addition to blocking under-16s from social media , platforms would also need to stop older teens using social media at night via opt-out "curfews" . Meanwhile, another major trial against Meta begins next week in California. Nearly three dozen US states' attorneys general are suing the company for violating child privacy laws. Get our flagship newsletter with all the headlines you need to start the day. Sign up here. Get in touch Have you been affected by the issues discussed in this story? Contact form Contact form Related topics Meta Mark Zuckerberg Social media Instagram More on this story Meta told to pay $375m for misleading users over child safety Published 24 March She spent 16 hours on Instagram in a day. It's up to a jury to decide if Meta is to blame Published 14 March Meta and TikTok let harmful content rise after evidence outrage drove engagement, say whistleblowers Published 16 March The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:05 What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:05, play video What we know about the Thailand school shooting 1:11 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 00:01:11, play video 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 0:39 How much rain will end the drought? 00:00:39, play video How much rain will end the drought? 1:43 Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment. 00:01:43, play video Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment 0:24 Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol. 00:00:24, play video Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol 1:00 What is 'food noise'? 00:01:00, play video What is 'food noise'? 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:00 What do people want from Argos? 00:01:00, play video What do people want from Argos? 0:58 Meet Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 New hope for Afghan women's football team. 00:01:19, play video New hope for Afghan women's football team 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house hit in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house hit in strike Top stories Live . Several dead after Thai teen shoots grandparents and schoolteachers 9902 viewing 9.9k viewing Thai pupil describes harrowing moment teacher was shot in front of her Published 43 minutes ago Officer who led PC Harper investigation 'appalled' killers could be released early Published 1 hour ago More to explore Argos is getting a makeover - but can it attract new shoppers? Lauryn Hill and Wyclef ‘in an amazing place’ as fans hope for new Fugees album after 30 years How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man ‘We have nowhere to return to’: How Russia is seizing homes in occupied Ukraine Sudan's invisible children - born in war with no legal identity First OpenAI, now Meta - why do AI hacks keep happening? The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 England footballer Toney charged with assault in Soho 2 Further arrests in Thetford as disorder continues for third night 3 Officer who led PC Harper investigation 'appalled' killers could be released early 4 How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man 5 Meta fined $567m in largest child safety ruling against social media giant 6 Trump again tries to limit US birthright citizenship with new executive orders 7 'Tories to end social housing for foreigners' and 'Bottoms down' 8 German airport drone-bomb: Could Russia be involved? 9 Argos is getting a makeover - but can it attract new shoppers? 10 Weekly quiz: Ed Sheeran got in trouble with the DVLA over which make of classic car? BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.