‘It is British life’: No 10 vows to stop councils trying to limit standing in pubs | London | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland The prime minister, Andy Burnham, and the chancellor, John Healey, at a London pub in July. Photograph: Richard Pohle/AFP/Getty Images View image in fullscreen The prime minister, Andy Burnham, and the chancellor, John Healey, at a London pub in July. Photograph: Richard Pohle/AFP/Getty Images London ‘It is British life’: No 10 vows to stop councils trying to limit standing in pubs Westminster council has recommended banning ‘vertical drinking’ or ordering at the bar in new draft licensing policy Helena Horton Thu 6 Aug 2026 17.07 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 17.27 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google No 10 has vowed to confiscate powers from local councils which try to restrict customers from standing up while drinking in pubs or ordering at the bar. It comes after the Guardian revealed on Thursday that Westminster council in central London recommended not allowing “vertical drinking” or ordering at the bar in its new draft licensing policy. The draft document, now out for consultation, recommends that pubs applying for new licences allow only table service rather than bar ordering. It also suggests new pubs in popular nightlife areas including Soho call last orders at 10pm, to reduce noise and disturbance. A Downing Street spokesperson said: “Busy pubs full of people talking to each other is not a public nuisance, it is British life, and it is thousands of jobs. “The government is devolving new licensing powers to the mayor [of London] to help support pubs and nightlife. Soho did not become world famous by taking last orders early, switching the lights off at 10 o’clock. “The prime minister encourages local leaders to work with the industry so that pubs can continue to thrive.” Diageo to nearly double Guinness production and cut jobs in turnaround plan Read more The government is due to grant new powers to the London mayor, Sadiq Khan , allowing him to “call in” local council decisions he opposes. Khan said of the proposals on X: “You can’t run a world-famous nightlife district with a village-hall mindset.” A spokesperson for the mayor previously said he was against “restrictive and anti-growth policies” and said he hoped to use new powers to be granted to him by the government to stop councils from overreaching. The draft policy says pubs should “discourage excessive drunkenness and encourage the provision of more seating in premises that serve alcohol for people to sit and enjoy a drink and order food by table service in place of open bar space that caters for high-volume vertical drinking”. It goes on to recommend that sales of alcohol and food should be “by waiter or waitress service only”. Operators of pubs and bars in Soho have criticised what they see as overly restrictive licensing policies and said the proposals could kill off West End nightlife. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Every day Sign up to Headlines UK Get the day’s headlines and highlights emailed direct to you every morning Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion Paul Swaddle, the Conservative leader of Westminster council, denied the plans amounted to a ban on “vertical drinking”. He told the Press Association that newspapers had carried “confusing stories” about the document and added: “I want to be straight with people. There is no plan, and never has been, to ban drinking while standing up in a Westminster pub.” Responding to Khan’s criticism, he said: “We don’t need lectures from city hall on backing hospitality when they have directed the police to object to every new licence application as their solution to curbing crime in the West End.” The council also plans to ban the opening of new pubs and bars in what it terms the “cumulative impact zone”, encompassing Soho and large parts of the West End. Areas such as Victoria and Mayfair will also face restrictions on new openings if the draft policy is made official. Explore more on these topics London Local government Food & drink industry Hospitality industry Pubs England news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)