Israel strikes southern Lebanon killing one and injuring 11 | Israel | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 3 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness A Lebanese boy removes his damaged bicycle from his destroyed home in south Lebanon on Wednesday after an Israeli airstrike. Photograph: Mohammed Zaatari/AP View image in fullscreen A Lebanese boy removes his damaged bicycle from his destroyed home in south Lebanon on Wednesday after an Israeli airstrike. Photograph: Mohammed Zaatari/AP Israel Israel strikes southern Lebanon killing one and injuring 11 Hits on two towns among deadliest bombings since start of June ceasefire William Christou in Beirut Wed 5 Aug 2026 12.34 EDT Last modified on Wed 5 Aug 2026 21.30 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google An Israeli airstrike in south Lebanon killed one person and injured 11, the Lebanese ministry of health said, in one of Israel’s deadliest bombings since the start of the June ceasefire. Israel carried out an airstrike in the town of Tebnine, south Lebanon hitting a cemetery, the Lebanese health ministry said. It said the town of al-Mansouri, also in south Lebanon, was bombed too, forcing families to flee. The Israeli military issued a displacement order about 30 minutes before the strike, saying it was destroying Hezbollah’s infrastructure in the area in response to the group’s “violation of the ceasefire”. Two Israeli troops were killed and seven wounded in an explosion in south Lebanon on Wednesday, with the origin unknown. In recent weeks, Israeli troops have been wounded by booby-trapped vehicles and mines laid by Hezbollah in south Lebanon. View image in fullscreen Israeli tanks in south Lebanon on Wednesday. Photograph: EPA Wednesday was the first time Israel has issued a displacement order since the start of the June ceasefire. Such orders were a near daily occurrence during the most recent round of Hezbollah-Israel fighting, which started on 2 March and displaced more than 1 million people in Lebanon. Since the June ceasefire, Israel has occupied swathes of Lebanon as part of a so-called security zone. It has continued bombing parts of the area and killing people who have come near. It is a similar approach to in Gaza, where Israel occupies more than 60% of the strip under what it calls its “yellow line”, and continues to carry out bombings there. Earlier this year, the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, said he had ordered the army to seize control of 70% of the Gaza strip . Gaza 'yellow zone' More than 1,200 people have been killed in Gaza since the beginning of the October ceasefire. At least 26 Palestinians were killed by Israeli strikes in the strip over the past weekend. In Lebanon, Israel has continued mass demolitions in areas it occupies, including a blast last week that used 700 tons of explosives around Beaufort Castle, outside Nabatieh. Israel has said it is targeting Hezbollah infrastructure, but rights groups, including Human Rights Watch, say the indiscriminate nature of the explosives could comprise the war crime of wanton destruction. Talks between the Lebanese government and Israel for a more permanent peace are continuing, with the two sides meeting in Rome on Tuesday. The Lebanese government is seeking Israel’s withdrawal, while Israel wants the disarmament of Hezbollah. View image in fullscreen A woman and child stand next to Lebanese military vehicles in Zawtar al Gharbiya, southern Lebanon, one of the pilot zones. Photograph: EPA The meetings in Rome are the seventh between the two sides, with talks expected to focus on the Ali Taher area in south Lebanon, where Israeli troops have been conducting detonations. So far, negotiations have resulted three “pilot zones” in south Lebanon where the Lebanese army has assumed control. The two sides are using these as tests of whether the Lebanese army can prevent Hezbollah from entering and can continue to dismantle the group’s infrastructure there. Progress in the pilot zones is slow and the Lebanese government has asked for a quicker Israeli withdrawal, which Israel is unlikely to agree to. The fighting this year started after Hezbollah launched rockets at Israel on 2 March in retaliation for the killing of Iran’s late supreme leader, Ali Khamenei. Israel then began a bombing campaign and invaded south Lebanon. Israel has since killed 4,321 people in Lebanon, while at least 40 Israelis, 38 of them troops, were killed by Hezbollah. Explore more on these topics Israel Lebanon Hezbollah Middle East and north Africa news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Rising Zelenskyy and falling Netanyahu cross paths in chaotic White House 28 Jul 2026 Israel says IDF is staying in southern Lebanon, undermining Iran peace talks 24 Jun 2026 Iran says it is closing strait of Hormuz over Israeli strikes in Lebanon 21 Jun 2026 Construction equipment multinationals may be aiding Israeli war crimes, experts say 17 Jun 2026 Israeli attack on Tyre in Lebanon kills eight as evacuation ordered for Christian quarter 9 Jun 2026 Iran launches missiles at Israel in response to strikes on Beirut 7 Jun 2026 Israel strikes southern Lebanon after ordering evacuations of nine villages 5 Jun 2026 Hezbollah rejects Israel-Lebanon truce as Trump scrambles to end Iran war 4 Jun 2026 Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)