Lindsay Clancy murder trial: toxicologist testifies about medications found in defendant’s blood | Massachusetts | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Lindsay Clancy awaits the start of proceedings at Plymouth superior court in Plymouth, Massachusetts, on 30 July 2026. Photograph: CJ Gunther/The Boston Herald via AP View image in fullscreen Lindsay Clancy awaits the start of proceedings at Plymouth superior court in Plymouth, Massachusetts, on 30 July 2026. Photograph: CJ Gunther/The Boston Herald via AP Massachusetts Lindsay Clancy murder trial: toxicologist testifies about medications found in defendant’s blood Variety of prescriptions were found in blood of mother accused of strangling her three children, court hears Sign up for the Breaking News US newsletter email Edward Helmore Wed 5 Aug 2026 19.27 EDT First published on Wed 5 Aug 2026 12.30 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google The trial of Lindsay Clancy, the Massachusetts woman accused of killing her three children in January 2023, continued on Wednesday with a forensic toxicologist testifying to the variety and concentration of medications found in the defendant’s blood. Justin Brower, a forensic toxicologist with NMS Laboratories, testified that his lab examined the levels of four psychiatric medications detected in Clancy’s blood after she allegedly strangled her children and attempted to take her own life. Those drugs included the antidepressant mirtazapine, the mood stabilizer lamotrigine, the antidepressant trazodone and quetiapine, a drug used to treat schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder. Brower noted that quetiapine could also be prescribed in low doses to treat insomnia. Postpartum psychosis or murder? Trial of mother who killed her kids spotlights mental health Read more Asked if the concentrations of each drug were different from what was prescribed, Brower said the only drug that appeared slightly elevated was quetiapine, but noted that it was not at a “toxic concentration” or “suicidal concentration”. “Usually people take handfuls of pills when they’re trying to harm themselves and take their own life, and this is not consistent with that,” Brower testified. He later testified, upon questioning from Clancy’s defense attorney, that the toxicology results “don’t tell the entire story”. Prosecutors say Clancy acted intentionally when she killed her children Callan, eight months old; Dawson, three years old; and Cora, five years old. Clancy’s defense team says she was a loving mother who was overcome by postpartum psychosis, had undiagnosed bipolar disorder and was on problematic medications. The court has heard from a range of experts for the prosecution, with testimony at times halted when witnesses, including Clancy’s ex-husband, Patrick Clancy, or the defendant have become overwhelmed. On Wednesday, the family’s nanny, Elaine Rossi, was asked on the stand if she’d ever had concerns about Clancy’s care for her children. “Not at all. She was a wonderful mom,’ she said. “I observed a wonderful mom who loved her kids.” If convicted, Clancy faces life in prison without parole. A not-guilty verdict by reason of a lack of criminal responsibility could lead to her being placed in a state mental health facility. On Monday, jurors heard excerpts from Clancy’s journals that revealed her mental struggles including thoughts of suicide and her feeling overwhelmed with motherhood, including her struggles to get her newborn to sleep, going back to work as a labor and delivery nurse, not being able to breastfeed, and feeling disconnected from her children and husband. “I’m so desperate to get a mental break from taking care of everyone that my mind is trying to find something physically wrong with me,” she wrote in an entry on 18 November 2022. The trial has shone a light on significant gaps in the diagnosis and treatment of postpartum psychosis and postpartum depression. Clancy’s attorneys say her condition seemed to worsen on an ever-shifting lineup of psychiatric prescriptions. In the three months before the killings, clinicians prescribed a range of antidepressants, sleep aids, an antipsychotic and other medications while Clancy reported increasingly profound insomnia, anxiety, despair and confusion about what was real, according to a civil lawsuit filed against caregivers that claims they should have recognized that Clancy and her children were at risk. In her diaries, Clancy wrote, “I want help. I want to be well,” and described feeling “incredibly sad and guilty” about not breastfeeding. She also wrote that she was “obsessed” with managing Callan’s sleep and nap schedule. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Around 2-3 times a day Sign up to Breaking News US Get the most important news as it breaks Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion “I have crazy brain fog. I feel like I can’t make a plan,” she wrote in another, undated entry. “I live moment to moment waiting for the next nap time. I’m terrified of Cal getting overtired now because I feel can’t help him.” “Hearing him cry for 1 plus hours and not intervening just about killed me,” Clancy wrote, adding that she had told her husband, Patrick, “I want to die.” She also wrote: “I now have horrible insomnia and anxiety which is causing depression. I have no appetite. I don’t know what’s wrong with me. I want help. I want to be well.” Clancy first sought help from a postpartum depression program in late December 2022. She went on to check herself into a psychiatric hospital and later told a psychiatrist that she heard a “man’s voice” in her head telling her to “kill the children so you can kill yourself”. Nineteen days later, after being discharged, she carried out the killings. The defendant is now paralyzed from her attempt to take her own life. When she woke up in hospital and was asked by a forensic psychologist how she felt, she responded: “Horrified.” Dr Jhilam Biswas of Brigham and Women’s hospital testified that Clancy asked “can she have visitors, and where her family is”. The court has also heard from Patrick Clancy, who recounted the medications his former wife was taking, her health and demeanor, and the destructive thoughts she was having. He has said he forgives Lindsay and believes that the killings were motivated purely by her mental health. When the jury heard the anguished 911 call Patrick Clancy made on the night of the killings, several members could be seen holding back tears. He described returning home after collecting medications and a takeout meal to find their home “quiet”. Patrick Clancy went upstairs to find found the door to their bedroom locked. After breaking in, the room was covered in blood and the window was open. His wife was lying on the ground below. She told him she had tried to take her own life. He asked where the children were, and she told him they were in the basement. When emergency services arrived, he ventured downstairs to find their three children with exercise resistance bands around their necks. Duxbury police officer Brian Josephine testified that he heard Patrick scream: “She killed the fucking kids.” In the US, call or text Mental Health America at 988 or chat 988lifeline.org. You can also reach Crisis Text Line by texting MHA to 741741. In the UK, the charity Mind is available on 0300 123 3393 and Childline on 0800 1111. In Australia, support is available at Beyond Blue on 1300 22 4636, Lifeline on 13 11 14, and at MensLine on 1300 789 978 Explore more on these topics Massachusetts Mental health US crime news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)