Widespread power outage in Cuba leaves millions in dark Accessibility links Skip to main content Skip to main Navigation Skip to Search Next Close Previous Next This image contains sensitive content which some people may find offensive or disturbing. Click to reveal Print Options: Images Multimedia Embedded Content Comments Cancel Print Link has been copied to clipboard Home United States U.S. News All About America World Africa The Americas East Asia Europe Middle East South & Central Asia Broadcast Programs VOA Languages Latest Global Coverage Follow Us Languages Search Search Previous Next Breaking News Americas Widespread power outage in Cuba leaves millions in dark By VOA News March 15, 2025 4:15 AM Widespread power outage in Cuba leaves millions in dark Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share Cuba Cuba’s power grid failed Friday night, leaving millions of the island nation’s 10 million residents in the dark. The outage, which began around 8 p.m. Eastern time, affected most of western Cuba, including the capital of Havana. Cuba has struggled with blackouts in recent months, including a nationwide one in December. Friday’s power failure was the fourth widespread one in five months. Government officials blame U.S. economic sanctions for the ongoing crisis, while others point to aging infrastructure, fuel shortages and the island’s susceptibility to hurricanes. Vicente de la O Levy, Cuba's minister of energy and mines, said on X Friday night that the country was making progress in restoring electricity. He gave no reason for the power grid’s crash apart from saying it started at the Diezmero substation, which then caused the National Electric System to fail. Power was still out early Saturday morning; officials gave no estimation of when it would be restored. CNN showed footage from Havana showing the city in darkness and pedestrians walking with flashlights. In October, a dayslong power outage forced some in Havana to resort to cooking over improvised stoves in the street. The situation also spurred protests, a rarity in the communist nation. Protesters blocked streets with heaps of trash before security forces dispersed them. At the time, O Levy dismissed the protests as "isolated and minimal incidents." Widespread power outage in Cuba leaves millions in dark Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share Follow us Facebook X (Twitter) Youtube Instagram Follow us Print VOA News The Voice of America provides news and information in more than 40 languages to an estimated weekly audience of over 326 million people. Stories with the VOA News byline are the work of multiple VOA journalists and may contain information from wire service reports. Related Cuba's cigar fair showcases humidors as new object of desire Migrant arrests at US-Mexico border near record low in February US expands visa restrictions on Cubans tied to labor export program US expands visa restrictions on Cubans tied to labor export program ​ Follow Us United States US News All About America World Africa The Americas East Asia Pacific Europe Middle East South & Central Asia Sections VOA Programs Special projects Day in Photos VOA News on Iran VOA News on China 52 Documentary Videos More From VOA VOAAfrica.com Programs VOA Learning English Editorials About this site Terms of Use & Privacy Notice About VOA Get VOA+ VOA Around the World Contact VOA Media Relations Usage Requests VOA Pronunciation Guide XS SM MD LG