Photos: Israeli forces raid occupied West Bank’s Qalandiya refugee camp | Israel-Palestine conflict News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up Navigation menu Israel-Palestine conflict Shackled, bleeding, raped: Abuse in Israeli prisons ‘This is an apartheid regime’ Does Trump have real leverage over Netanyahu? History of flotilla campaigns In Pictures Gallery | Israel-Palestine conflict Photos: Israeli forces raid occupied West Bank’s Qalandiya refugee camp Eight Palestinian people injured after Israeli forces enter homes, shops in Qalandiya, issuing demolition threats. Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google Israeli forces patrol along a street during a military raid in the Qalandiya refugee camp, south of Ramallah [Zain Jaafar/AFP] By AFP Published On 5 Aug 2026 5 Aug 2026 Israeli forces have entered homes and shops in the occupied West Bank’s Qalandiya refugee camp, near Ramallah, issuing demolition threats against businesses. The Palestine Red Crescent Society (PRCS) said on Wednesday that eight Palestinian people were taken to hospital after suffering injuries. Mohammad Aslan, spokesman for the committee that runs the affairs of the camp, told the AFP news agency that the Israeli army had arrested at least 20 people and took up positions on residents’ roofs. In 2023, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s government advanced plans for the construction of an illegal 9,000-unit settlement on the grounds of Jerusalem’s former Atarot airport, adjacent to Qalandiya. Palestinian residents have since voiced fear that raids and home demolitions could be tied to a strategy of eviction before illegal settlement construction, without any official word from Israeli authorities. A man walks past Israeli forces during the raid in the Qalandiya refugee camp, south of Ramallah. [Zain Jaafar/AFP] Advertisement The operation comes amid a surge in Israeli raids across the occupied West Bank, with Palestinians saying the number has risen to about 50 raids per day in recent weeks. [Zain Jaafar/AFP] Journalists covering the raid say they have been targeted while performing their duties, with one of the reporters assaulted by Israeli soldiers. [Zain Jaafar/AFP] The purpose of the raid remains unclear, with residents questioning whether it is linked to arrests, intelligence operations or further restrictions on the camp. [Zain Jaafar/AFP] The Palestine Red Crescent Society said that eight people were taken to hospital after suffering injuries. [Zain Jaafar/AFP] Residents say Israeli forces have also shut down businesses in areas under Jerusalem municipality boundaries. [Zain Jaafar/AFP] Advertisement Members of Israeli security forces patrol along a busy street during the military raid in the Qalandiya refugee camp. [Zain Jaafar/AFP] About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network