Embattled GOP Rep. Max Miller requests an Ethics investigation into himself IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Congress Embattled GOP Rep. Max Miller requests an Ethics investigation into himself The Ohio Republican, who has been accused of domestic abuse by his ex-wife, said he would seek to “clear” his name, adding: “I have absolutely nothing to hide.” Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Add NBC News to Google Rep. Max Miller calls for House investigation into himself amid abuse allegations 03:55 Get more news on Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 4, 2026, 1:25 PM EDT / Updated Aug. 4, 2026, 4:08 PM EDT By Scott Wong , Frank Thorp V and Ryan J. Karlin WASHINGTON — Embattled Rep. Max Miller, R-Ohio, on Tuesday requested that the House Ethics Committee investigate domestic abuse allegations made by his ex-wife — an unusual move to try to exonerate himself amid a messy custody battle that is playing out in public view. “In light of all the renewed interest in my family affairs I am going to file my own paperwork for an ethics investigation into myself to clear my name from these horrific attacks on myself and family. I have absolutely nothing to hide,” Miller, who has vehemently denied the allegations, said in a post on X . Rep. Max Miller, R-Ohio, attends the Ways and Means Committee hearing on the priorities of the Treasury Department in Longworth building on Thursday, June 4, 2026. Tom Williams / CQ-Roll Call via Getty Images file “We will be providing the committee all necessary documents needed for a detail examination. The accusations continue to change, but my facts stay the same. I am looking forward to my colleagues reading everything for themselves,” Miller continued. 01:39 Rep. Miller vows to stay in reelection race amid abuse allegations 00:00 00:00 Hours later, the Ethics panel said it had launched an investigation into whether Miller may have engaged in “domestic violence and abuse or illegal drug use in violation of the Code of Official Conduct.” Miller denied multiple allegations in a livestream on X over the weekend, saying: “I have never abused our daughter. ... No court, no agency has ever substantiated any allegation of abuse against me. No criminal charge has ever been filed against me.” He also released several audio recordings and transcripts that he said proved his case. In one of them, Miller’s ex-wife Emily Moreno is identified as telling Miller she believes he has a drug problem and that she found needles by his bed — allegations he denied to her. Another transcript identifies Miller telling Emily Moreno that he was injecting himself with testosterone. A spokesperson for Emily Moreno, Stefan Mychajliw, accused Miller of lying “about his ex-wife to desperately try to save his political career” in an earlier statement. “There is a documented trove of evidence that Miller has a history of violent and dangerous behavior and no amount of victim shaming will change that,” Mychajliw said. An Ethics investigation will likely take weeks, if not months to complete. The House is out on its August recess and will return in September. But the fact that he made the request suggests Miller is not planning to drop out of his race for re-election, despite a declaration from his former father-in-law, Sen. Bernie Moreno, a fellow Ohio Republican, that Miller is not fit to serve in Congress. Earlier this week, Moreno issued a stunning statement saying Miller “needs serious psychological help” and is “a danger to my daughter,” Emily Moreno, adding, “I hold my breath every minute he has custody of my granddaughter.” “If there are any basic standards of character required to hold elected office, Max Miller fails them,” Moreno added. “He should not serve in the House of Representatives.” In the Capitol on Tuesday, Moreno became emotional when telling reporters about the toll this public feud with Miller has taken on his daughter, granddaughter and wife. “This is truly the seventh level of hell. This has been a horrific experience for my entire family,” Moreno said. Moreno said his daughter lives in constant fear of Miller and said he met Miller at a police station on Sunday to pick up his granddaughter. So far, President Donald Trump is standing by Miller, though the allegations are unsettling for some congressional Republicans. Trump on Monday called the situation “a very sad thing” and said Miller, a political ally, is a “good person.” The president said he wanted to let the families figure things out. Sen. John Kennedy, R-La., said the allegation that Miller engaged in domestic abuse is “none of my business.” But the senator added: “It just— it doesn’t help. Just gives people more one more reason to be disgusted with Congress.” Lawmakers typically do not request Ethics investigations into themselves, but it has happened before. In 2008, then-House Ways and Means Chairman Charlie Rangel, D-N.Y., asked the Ethics Committee to investigate allegations that he had improperly used congressional letterhead to rally support for an educational center named after him. But the strategy backfired for Rangel. After a two-year Ethics probe, the panel found the longtime congressman guilty of violating 11 House ethics rules, and he was censured by the full House . Rangel had to relinquish his powerful Ways and Means gavel in the process, and he did not seek re-election in 2016. Share Add NBC News to Google Scott Wong Scott Wong is a senior congressional reporter for NBC News. Frank Thorp V Frank Thorp V is a coordinating producer and off-air reporter covering Congress for NBC News, managing coverage of the Senate. Ryan J. Karlin Ryan J. Karlin is an intern at NBC News. Brennan Leach and Kyle Stewart contributed . About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC