Henry Pollock: Northampton star set to demand £1m-a-year to stay with Saints - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland Quizzes News Feeds Help & FAQs Northampton Saints Scores & Fixtures Tables Pollock to demand £1m a year at Northampton - Hearn Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Pollock was voted player of the match in Northampton's wins over Leicester and Exeter in the Prem semi-finals and final respectively last season By Mike Henson BBC Sport rugby union news reporter Published 3 August 2026 Henry Pollock is set to demand a substantial increase on his current Northampton contract to stay at Franklin's Gardens, with agent Eddie Hearn suggesting annual earnings of £1m are the going rate for the 21-year-old star. "He's certainly a seven-figure player," said Hearn, who met with Pollock on his yacht off Monaco last month, to the Daily Telegraph. , external "The way rugby's going and what Pollock is doing, his value over the next couple of years will skyrocket, and I think the value of rugby will." Pollock's current deal with Saints, signed in December 2024 and set to expire in summer 2027, is thought to be worth £150,000 a year. Since agreeing those terms, the back row has made his England debut, toured with the British and Irish Lions and was a key part of the Saints side that reached the Champions Cup final last year and won the Prem title in June. His exuberant on-pitch persona, relishing confrontation and celebrating tries with rehearsed routines, has attracted attention and a legion of young fans. Northampton's ability to match Pollock's wage demands may be hampered by a league-wide £6.4m salary cap and their own generation of young stars. Each team can have one marquee player whose pay is exempt from counting towards the cap. Fly-half Fin Smith is thought to currently occupy that place on the Saints' payroll, while Tommy Freeman, who has reportedly signed a lucrative new extension, , external and scrum-half Alex Mitchell could also make claims to it. Northampton failed to reach agreement with club captain George Furbank on a new deal last season, allowing the England full-back to leave for Harlequins as they sought to make space under the salary ceiling to improve the terms of young stars like Pollock. The latest salary cap report , external - which detailed payroll from the 2024-25 season - showed Saints did not pay up to the £6.4m limit, with salary spending higher at Bath, Leicester, Sale, Harlequins and Saracens. It also showed Pollock's reported earnings being below average for both his position, with the average back row earning a mean of £192,000, and Test experience, with players between 11 and 20 caps around £224,000. While Bath fly-half Finn Russell, another of Hearn's clients, is believed to be the league's highest earner on a deal worth about £1m a year, few clubs have the resources or space in their salary structure to accommodate such a highly paid figurehead. Newcastle Red Bulls, recently taken over by the Austrian energy drink giant, are one of the exceptions. Bristol, who place a large emphasis on the marketability of their players , external and have signed Louis Rees-Zammit, Ellie Kildunne and Ilona Maher over the past couple of seasons, could be another. This Instagram post cannot be displayed in your browser. Please enable Javascript or try a different browser. View original content on Instagram The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Skip instagram post Allow Instagram content? This article contains content provided by Instagram. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Meta’s Instagram cookie policy , external and privacy policy , external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’ . Accept and continue The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. End of instagram post Hearn said that Pollock would not consider a move overseas, given it would stall his international career under England's current policy of only picking domestically based players, and that the back row was keen to stay at Northampton in an ideal world. "Henry Pollock drives season ticket sales," added Hearn. "Henry Pollock puts bums on the seats. Henry Pollock drives viewership on TNT or wherever it's going to be. Henry Pollock sells shirts, right? That's the difference. So you can actually put an economic value over having Henry Pollock on the team, and that has to be recognised, regardless of the want from Henry. "He cannot stay at this club on the money that he's on." Hearn added that Pollock was keen to play Sevens for Great Britain at the Los Angeles Olympics in 2028. France's captain Antoine Dupont successfully switched to the format for Paris 2024, helping his nation to their first gold of the games and massively boosting his profile in the process. Great Britain's full-time Sevens programme was cut last year, with both the men's and women's sides dropping out of the top-tier of international competition this summer. While routes still exist for them to qualify for the Games, their lack of exposure to elite competition is far from ideal build-up. Related topics Rugby Union Northampton Saints English Rugby More on this story Northampton sign Italian international Neculai Published 3 August 'Family stress' forces Scotland boss Fukofuka to step down Published 3 August 'No merging - we'll take them on, rugby v cricket' Published 31 July Shorts Previous Next 0:46 'This loss will be the making of him' Peet on Itauma defeat 00:00:46, play video 'This loss will be the making of him' Peet on Itauma defeat 0:38 Can Liverpool get Isak get firing? 00:00:38, play video Can Liverpool get Isak get firing? 1:02 Spurs fan - We should've got Liam Delap. 00:01:02, play video Spurs fan - We should've got Liam Delap 0:18 'Terminator' Hrgovic has one of the 'best chins in boxing' 00:00:18, play video 'Terminator' Hrgovic has one of the 'best chins in boxing' 0:27 Jake Paul is giving women's boxing a huge platform - Kamale. 00:00:27, play video Jake Paul is giving women's boxing a huge platform - Kamale 0:49 US Open players complain of cannabis smell. 00:00:49, play video US Open players complain of cannabis smell 1:11 What will Barcola bring to Liverpool? 00:01:11, play video What will Barcola bring to Liverpool? 0:38 Things get intense in the watchalong studio... 00:00:38, play video Things get intense in the watchalong studio... 0:33 Alex Scott responds to transfer speculation? 00:00:33, play video Alex Scott responds to transfer speculation? 0:26 Does Virgil van Dijk need more protection? 00:00:26, play video Does Virgil van Dijk need more protection? 0:27 'You can't play that!' - Gay trapped lbw. 00:00:27, play video 'You can't play that!' - Gay trapped lbw 0:40 McLaren contract extension 'easy decision' for Norris. 00:00:40, play video McLaren contract extension 'easy decision' for Norris 0:44 The worst thing about being a boxer. 00:00:44, play video The worst thing about being a boxer Top stories Itauma punches himself out against Hrgovic in world-title fight Published 47 minutes ago Man City open talks with Liverpool over Gakpo Published 3 hours ago £300m spent, bottom of the table... but Spurs boss De Zerbi 'not angry' Published 2 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC Low-key noughties sitcom starring Robert Webb and Paula Wilcox An immersive concert of ambient and classical soundscapes An action-revenge thriller steeped in mythology, starring Dev Patel Is crying good for you? Elsewhere in Sport £300m spent, bottom of the table... but Spurs boss De Zerbi 'not angry' 'That trust isn't there' - how does Iraola get best out of Isak? 'Not bad for the worst team in Premier League history' - Hull's perfect start A magician and a maverick - this could be Cherki's moment for Man City Lampard 'somewhere in the middle' of Mourinho and Ancelotti How England are building an attack to trouble Australia Division, drama and power - what next for Infantino and Uefa? Sutton's predictions v Royal Blood drummer Ben Thatcher 'A generational icon' - why wildcards abound for Venus Williams Have expensively assembled Rangers improved at all under 'mortified' McInnes? Villa sign Goretzka - what went wrong at Bayern and what will he bring? Why Herrera is playing for free in Spanish third division Are left-handers better and when will Root catch Tendulkar? Cricket Q&A Sir Billy Boston - 'the world-class athlete, whose story deserved to be told' Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.