Yen hits three-month high after Trump helps prop up currency | Yen | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Business Economics Diversity & equality in business Small business Retail Japan’s prime minister Sanae Takaichi met Donald Trump in March. Photograph: Evelyn Hockstein/Reuters View image in fullscreen Japan’s prime minister Sanae Takaichi met Donald Trump in March. Photograph: Evelyn Hockstein/Reuters Yen Yen hits three-month high after Trump helps prop up currency US and Japanese governments confirm they carried out a rare joint intervention late last week Why has Trump stepped in to prop up Japan’s currency? Business live – latest updates Graeme Wearden Mon 3 Aug 2026 04.34 EDT First published on Mon 3 Aug 2026 04.02 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google The yen has hit its highest level in three months after Japan and the US launched a combined operation to support the Japanese currency. The yen strengthened to ¥155 to the US dollar on Monday, its highest level since early May, after Tokyo and Washington confirmed they had carried out a rare joint currency intervention late last week. Tokyo’s finance ministry said on Monday the two governments had conducted coordinated yen-buying intervention and would not hesitate to take further action. Why has Trump stepped in to prop up Japan’s currency? Read more The intervention came after the yen had weakened to a 40-year low of almost ¥164 to the dollar last week. Donald Trump told reporters on Sunday: “They have a weakening yen, and they wanted a little bit of help. And we’re always there for Japan .” The yen had weakened in recent months as Japanese borrowing costs remained lower than in other advanced economies. This disparity fuelled a so-called “carry trade”, in which investors borrowed cheaply in yen to buy higher-yielding dollar assets. The yen has also suffered from investors’ concern about Japanese prime minister Sanae Takaichi’s push to use tax and spending measures to stimulate the Japanese economy , and her criticism of the Bank of Japan setting higher interest rates, which have also pushed up the country’s borrowing costs. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Every weekday Sign up to Business Today Get set for the working day – we'll point you to all the business news and analysis you need every morning Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion Bessent ‘to-do’ list shows proposal for US to buy $5bn-$10bn of Japanese yen Read more The US Treasury secretary, Scott Bessent, said Washington “will not hesitate to ⁠participate in further joint intervention”, while repeating calls for further interest rate rises from Japan’s central ​bank. On Saturday, a photograph of Bessent’s notebook taken during a cabinet meeting showed that his “to do” list included buying $5bn-$10bn ⁠worth of Japanese yen. However, the Financial Times reported that Washington had sold euros to buy yen, rather than using dollars – perhaps to avoid suggesting it wanted a weaker US currency. Bank of Japan data suggested Tokyo spent as much as $36.58bn last Friday to buy yen and strengthen the local currency, Reuters reported. This is the first collaboration involving Japan and the US since March 2011 when a joint intervention was made to weaken the yen after the March Tohoku earthquake and tsunami. Lee Hardman, a currency analyst at MUFG bank, said: “The threat of further joint intervention and a faster pace of BoJ hikes should provide more support for the yen, and discourage speculators from running elevated short yen positions.” The consultancy Oxford Economics said the US-Japan coordinated intervention would not be enough to reverse the trend of yen weakness. “Despite rising market speculation about faster rate hikes by the Bank of Japan, we continue to assume the central bank waits until December because the intervention reduces the risk of a sharp yen depreciation and gives the BoJ more time to assess the impact of the Middle East conflict and past rate hikes on the economy,” it said. Explore more on these topics Yen Economics Currencies Japan Asia Pacific news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Why has Trump stepped in to prop up Japan’s currency? 2d ago Bessent ‘to-do’ list shows proposal for US to buy $5bn-$10bn of Japanese yen 4d ago Bank of Japan raises interest rates to 31-year high … of 1% 16 Jun 2026 Japanese manga fans urge Trump to stop using characters in his online posts 10 Jun 2026 Sanae Takaichi appoints just two women to cabinet after becoming Japan’s first female PM 21 Oct 2025 Sanae Takaichi: Japan’s first female PM, who cites Thatcher as an influence 21 Oct 2025 Sanae Takaichi on course to become Japan’s first female PM after new coalition deal 20 Oct 2025 A Trump visit, a creaking coalition and a cost of living crisis: Japan’s new PM needs a fast start 21 Oct 2025 Japan’s Nomura bank boss takes 30% voluntary pay cut after worker tries to kill customer 3 Dec 2024 Most viewed Most viewed Business Economics Diversity & equality in business Small business Retail News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)