Meta says its AI model breached a third-party company during testing - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Cyberattacks World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War Cyberattacks World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News U.S. Meta says its AI model breached a third-party company during testing August 5, 2026 / 11:50 PM EDT / CBS/AP Add CBS News on Google Tech giant Meta revealed Wednesday that one of its artificial intelligence models hacked another organization during testing, the third time in recent weeks that an AI model has improperly accessed a third-party company. In a statement provided to CBS News, Meta said that "a misconfiguration by Irregular, an independent testing company Meta uses, inadvertently allowed one of our models access to the internet during evaluation." In its statement, Meta did not name the AI model in question, but sources told the tech outlet The Information that it involved Meta's Muse Spark 1.1, according to Reuters. "The model subsequently exploited a security vulnerability in a third-party service, in a manner similar to previously-reported instances with other companies," Meta said Wednesday. "Meta learned of this when Irregular notified us, and we are currently investigating and will issue a full retrospective once we have all the facts." Last week, Anthropic said its artificial intelligence models hacked into three other organizations during testing. The revelation came just days after ChatGPT maker OpenAI disclosed its rogue models had also hacked another company. Anthropic, the San Francisco-based AI company behind Claude, posted on its website July 30 that it discovered the three incidents after reviewing more than 141,000 evaluation runs. It had launched a "large-scale" cybersecurity review which specifically looked for evidence whether its AI models were able to access the internet from within testing environments that should have been sealed off, in response to the OpenAI incident, Anthropic said. Anthropic said the models involved in the incidents were Claude Opus 4.7, Claude Mythos 5 and an internal research test model. The earliest incidents date to April, the AI company said. "Claude compromised the impacted organizations' infrastructure using basic techniques," Anthropic said, such as exploiting weak passwords. In all three incidents, the AI models were tasked with a "capture the flag" cybersecurity challenge, which Anthropic said has been one of the ways it assesses a model's cyber capabilities. The models were given a fictional scenario and told a piece of secret information, or the "flag," had been hidden on a different machine on the network with the objective of breaking in and retrieving it, it said. It added that it had already reached out to the affected organizations, which it did not name. Two of them said they had not previously detected the activity. Anthropic said it was "continuing to reach out to the third." Anthropic also said it conducted its review with Irregular. "Addressing these risks will require closer cooperation across the AI ecosystem," Irregular said in a July 30 post on X. Last month, OpenAI said its AI models went rogue during an evaluation of its models, breaking into the servers of AI startup Hugging Face. OpenAI described it as a "significant security incident." These incidents have highlighted the vulnerabilities in AI security and controls and raised questions over how AI can be safely kept under human control as the technology's usage becomes more widespread globally. More from CBS News U.S. has used nearly all its stockpile of long-range missiles, sources say Trump denies U.S. running low on some munitions, says many more on the way WWII explosives detonate in France amid wildfires: "Sound of war" Behind closed doors, Trump, White House aides hope Rep. Max Miller exits race Go deeper with The Free Press How Dangerous Is Anthropic’s New AI Model? Its Chief Science Officer Explains. Tyler Cowen: Nothing Can Stop the AI Revolution In: Meta Artificial Intelligence © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report. Anthropic claims its AI models went rogue Anthropic claims its AI models went rogue, hacked 3 companies 05:39 Anthropic claims its AI models went rogue, hacked 3 companies (05:39) U.S. has used nearly all its stockpile of long-range missiles, sources say Trump denies U.S. running low on some munitions, says many more on the way WWII explosives detonate in France amid wildfires: "Sound of war" How Dangerous Is Anthropic’s New AI Model? Its Chief Science Officer Explains. Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue