Oil prices: WTI, Brent: Trump says he called off planned strike on Iran Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Oil and Gas Oil prices tumble after Trump calls off attack on Iran Published Sun, Aug 2 2026 7:33 PM EDT Updated Mon, Aug 3 2026 3:59 PM EDT Spencer Kimball @spencekimball Lee Ying Shan @in/ying-shan-lee @LeeYingshan WATCH LIVE Key Points Oil prices fell after U.S. President Donald Trump said he had called off a planned strike on Iran. Trump said the U.S. and Iran would hold negotiations on Monday. Tehran denied that talks were planned with Washington, according to state news outlet PressTV. In this article @LCO.1 Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 5:25 05:25 Time is not on President Trump's side in reopening Strait of Hormuz: Bob McNally Squawk Box Asia Oil prices tumbled Monday after President Donald Trump said he called off a planned strike on Iran . West Texas Intermediate futures, the U.S. benchmark, declined about 5% to close at $80.34 per barrel. Brent crude , the international benchmark, lost 4.7% to settle at $83.77 a barrel. Trump said early Sunday that he had called off a planned strike on Iran after receiving a request from Tehran and other countries in the Middle East. "We have just been asked by Iran, and other Middle Eastern Countries, to hold off any attack in that the perimeters of a deal has been agreed to," Trump said in a Truth Social post. The president said the proposed agreement would include the "Immediate, Complete, and Total OPENING OF THE HORMUZ STRAIT, and an end to Iran's nuclear threat." Trump had been weighing another round of strikes on Iran amid fading prospects for a diplomatic resolution to the conflict, which began on Feb. 28. The president said the U.S. and Iran would hold negotiations on Monday. Tehran denied that talks were planned with Washington, according to state news outlet PressTV . Iran's Foreign Ministry spokesman Esmaeil Baghaei said Tehran was only holding talks with Oman on what route ships can sail through the Strait of Hormuz. Trump said in a subsequent Truth Social post that whether "Iran wants to admit it or not, we are, in fact, talking of a solution to a problem that they have caused, for decades." Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by