Oklahoma influencer killed in apparent murder-suicide by husband, police say | US crime | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Sara Gilson Duffey, 43, was fatally shot at her home in suburban Tulsa. Photograph: @mrsgilson View image in fullscreen Sara Gilson Duffey, 43, was fatally shot at her home in suburban Tulsa. Photograph: @mrsgilson US crime This article is more than 1 month old Oklahoma influencer killed in apparent murder-suicide by husband, police say This article is more than 1 month old Sara Gilson was fatally shot less than two weeks after accusing her husband of pedophilia on social media Ramon Antonio Vargas Sun 26 Jul 2026 10.38 EDT Last modified on Mon 27 Jul 2026 12.21 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google An Oklahoma woman known for posting on social media about parenting her children was fatally shot in an apparent murder-suicide by her estranged husband a short time after she published a clip alluding to allegations that he had molested a minor, according to authorities and court records. Sara Duffey – who was 43 and also went by Sara Gilson – and Jeremiah Shawn Duffey, 48, were both found dead with gunshot wounds on Thursday at a home in suburban Tulsa, said statements from local police. Investigators suspected that Jeremiah had shot Sara and then himself. She had sought a protective order on 10 June meant to keep Jeremiah away from the couple’s home in the Oklahoma city of Collinsville. On that same day, another woman filed for a protective order aimed at keeping Jeremiah away from her daughter, Tulsa state court records show. Jeremiah had been caught by a fellow youth basketball coach kissing and fondling the girl, who later told her mother that Jeremiah had sent her inappropriate text messages, invited her to his hotel room while traveling and even gave her money meant “to keep her quiet”, said legal filings connected to the protective order that were reported by the Oklahoman newspaper. Those allegations were reported to police in the city of Owasso, which is adjacent to Collinsville. Sara’s filing echoed the accusations – but added that Jeremiah had a firearm, threatened suicide and “went on the run”. Sara on 11 July then posted a video to her tens of thousands of followers on the TikTok platform which showed her sitting on a chair while somber-faced under text reading, “Preparing for when Netflix drops a documentary about my soon to be ex husband who I just found out is a pedophile.” “I wish I was joking,” Sara wrote under her “mrsgilson” handle, where she otherwise posted commentary on fashion trends and her two children. It was 12 days later when police said they received an 11.15pm emergency call from inside Sara’s home in Collinsville. A woman could be heard screaming amid “what sounded to be a gunshot”, according to police, as NBC News reported . A second emergency call then came from a neighboring home. It was a boy who had gone to a neighbor and reported that his stepfather had shot his mother, police said. Police said they found the bodies of Sara and Jeremiah when they arrived to investigate. While the case remained under investigation, police said all indications were that he had killed her before dying by suicide. Sara’s son was reportedly put in the custody of another parent who was uninvolved in the case. News of Sara’s killing resulted in wide circulation of her 11 July video, which had accumulated about 15m views as of Sunday. It was also a stark reminder of how, in the US, more than half of female homicide victims are killed by current or former male intimate partners, according to crime report data cited by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ). The same data cited by the CDC show that about 20% of homicide victims overall die at the hands of an intimate partner. An online fundraiser set up for Sara’s children described her as “an incredible mom” who “loved them fiercely, worked hard to provide for them and dreamed of giving them the best life possible”. “Her children were the center of her world,” the fundraiser said. “And everything she did was for them.” Explore more on these topics US crime Oklahoma news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)