Africa backs Infantino as CAF unanimously votes in FIFA president’s favour | Sport News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up Sport Africa backs Infantino as CAF unanimously votes in FIFA president’s favour CAF president Patrice Motsepe calls for good governance, as Africa throws weight behind FIFA’s Gianni Infantino. Listen (3 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google FIFA president Gianni Infantino and CAF president Patrice Motsepe during the Canada and Morocco match at World Cup 2026 [Maria Lysaker/Reuters] By Reuters Published On 7 Aug 2026 7 Aug 2026 The Confederation of African Football’s Executive Committee has unanimously confirmed its support for beleaguered FIFA president Gianni Infantino, at odds with ⁠its counterparts in Europe, North America and Asia. On the day UEFA said it is committed to boycotting future World Cups at all levels while Infantino remains in office, CAF’s top decision-making body late on Thursday sided with the ⁠FIFA president as he seeks re-election in March next year. Recommended Stories list of 4 items list 1 of 4 Argentina and Mexico back Infantino, deepening FIFA divide: What to know list 2 of 4 UEFA says FIFA boycott remains despite Infantino World Cup selloff U-turn list 3 of 4 Infantino, FIFA try to move beyond botched World Cup sell-off: What we know list 4 of 4 UEFA’s threatened legal action against Infantino and FIFA: What we know end of list CAF makes up 54 of FIFA’s 211 member associations, and is a powerful voting bloc that has largely supported Infantino since he took office in 2016. “The CAF EXCO unanimously reconfirmed its support for FIFA President Gianni Infantino and thanked him for his support for African football over ‌the years,” CAF said in a statement. CAF president Patrice Motsepe welcomed FIFA’s pledge to review the processes that led to the controversy which caused the fiercest revolt of Infantino’s tenure as national federations complained they had been sidelined over the abandoned proposal to sell a slice of the World Cup’s commercial future. “CAF welcomes and endorses the “Joint Update” by FIFA President Gianni Infantino and Secretary General Mattias Grafstrom,” Motsepe said, but stressed the need for good governance and transparency in global football. “We are committed to ⁠continue working together with FIFA, its member associations, other football Confederations and ⁠stakeholders to safeguard and adhere to governance, due process, and transparency global best practises and to contribute to the development and growth of football worldwide.” Advertisement CAF’s support will provide some relief to Infantino, who has faced near-global condemnation for his aborted plan to ⁠establish the FIFA Forward Enterprise (FFE) and sell commercial rights to the World Cup. Earlier this week, five of Africa’s most influential football leaders issued statements in support ⁠of Infantino, while also welcoming the decision to drop his controversial ⁠plan to sell a stake in future World Cup revenue. CAF vice president Fouzi Lekjaa from Morocco and fellow FIFA Council members Hany Abo Rida (Egypt), Hamidou Djibrilla (Niger) and Ahmed Yahya (Mauritania) all pledged to support Infantino. Veron Mosengo-Omba, recently elected president of the football federation in the ‌Democratic Republic of the Congo and former CAF general secretary, also lent his voice in support. Motsepe was also effusive in his praise for Infantino days before the World Cup sell-off scandal broke. “I personally support Gianni Infantino,” he ‌said. “He’s ‌not just a good friend. He’s a loyal friend. He’s loyal to Africa. I come from a background where when people have been loyal to you, you never stab them in the back.” FIFA itself issued a statement on Wednesday fully backing Infantino . Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network