--> Sara Gilson’s Ex Files to Block Her Husband’s Beneficiaries from Cut of Her Estate Skip to content PEOPLE Search Please fill out this field. Log In My Account Log Out Settings Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Subscribe Search Please fill out this field. Entertainment Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Awards & Events Sports Books Video Sexiest Man Alive Puzzler View All Crime Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History View All Human Interest Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals View All Lifestyle Lifestyle Food Home Travel Style Health View All Royals Royals British Royal Family News View All Health Shopping Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Shopping Subscribe Log In My Account My Account Log Out Settings Magazine Magazine Subscribe Manage Your Subscription Give a Gift Subscription Get Help Newsletters Sweepstakes Get more in our free app Follow Us Entertainment Celebrity Movies Music TV Awards & Events Sports Books Video Sexiest Man Alive Puzzler Crime Crime News Serial Killers Cults Crime History Human Interest Real People News Astrology Animals Lifestyle Food Home Travel Style Health Royals British Royal Family News Health Shopping Fashion Beauty Home Kitchen Travel Products Pets Gifts Sales & Deals People Tested Subscribe 1 ‘Wheel of Fortune’ Announcer Jim Thornton Is Suspended as Show Investigates Allegations 2 Lionel Richie Expecting to Fly Home Tomorrow, Undergoing Cardiac Tests in ICU (Report) 3 Cher Slams Son Elijah Blue Allman’s Wife Over ‘Quest for Money’ in New Court Filing 4 Missing Grandmother of 4’s ‘Incredible’ Final Text Gave Family Peace Before She Vanished in Deadly Nepal Floods Sara Gilson’s Ex-Husband Files to Block Husband’s Beneficiaries from Getting Her Estate After Murder-Suicide Gilson was killed by her husband, Jeremiah “Shawn” Duffey, in July By Luke Chinman Luke Chinman Luke Chinman is a Writer on the Society & Culture team at PEOPLE. He joined PEOPLE in 2024. People Editorial Guidelines Published on August 4, 2026 11:11AM EDT 16 Comments Sara Gilson. Credit : Sara Gilson/Instagram NEED TO KNOW Influencer Sara Gilson’s ex-husband, Lyle Landers, filed to block her husband’s beneficiaries from receiving a portion of her estate In a court filing on July 29, Landers, who shared two teenage kids with the late influencer, claimed that she died without a will and asked a court to block beneficiaries of her husband, Jeremiah “Shawn” Duffey, from inheriting anything after her death Gilson was killed by Duffey in July, less than two weeks after she accused him of being a pedophile in a viral TikTok video Sara Gilson’s ex-husband, Lyle Landers, has filed to block her husband’s beneficiaries from receiving a portion of her estate. In a court filing on July 29, Landers, who shared two teenage kids with the late influencer, claimed that she died without a will and asked a court to block beneficiaries of her husband, Jeremiah “Shawn” Duffey, from inheriting anything after her death. Gilson — a 43-year-old internet personality with over 100,000 followers on TikTok — was found dead in her Oklahoma home on July 23, less than two weeks after she accused Duffey of being a pedophile in a viral TikTok video. Gilson was shot by Duffey, 48, who then fatally shot himself, the Owasso Police Department previously confirmed to PEOPLE. Our new app is here! Free, fun and full of exclusives. Scan to download now! In Landers’s filing, which was obtained by PEOPLE, he argued that, because Duffey “intentionally and feloniously took the life” of Gilson, his beneficiaries should be barred from inheriting any of her assets. He cited an Oklahoma statute that stipulates no person convicted of murder should inherit from the victim’s estate. Sara Gilson. GoFundMe The filing adds that Gilson’s estate includes personal property in Tulsa County. Speaking to PEOPLE in the days before his filing, Landers remembered her as “a mom, a daughter, a sister and a friend,” as well as “a beautiful person, inside and out.” Related Stories Sara Gilson’s Best Friend of More Than 2 Decades Remembers the ‘Loving’ Influencer’s Last Day Alive (Exclusive) Sara Gilson’s Estranged Husband Was Under Investigation for Lewd Molestation of a Minor at Time of Murder-Suicide “She loved people immensely, and without judgment,” he said. “Her greatest achievement in life, though, was in our two babies.” He said that they divorced roughly seven years prior, but they had remained friends and had continued to co-parent their children. In the years before her death, Gilson had filed for several protective orders against Duffey, including for an emergency protective order against him on June 10, after which he was ordered out of their home and to stay 100 yards away from her, per court records viewed by PEOPLE. Gilson alleged in her application for the protective order that Duffey had a gun, threatened suicide “and went on the run,” reported The Oklahoman . On June 10, a woman separately filed a protective order against Duffey on behalf of her 15-year-old daughter, per court documents viewed by PEOPLE. Never miss a story — sign up for PEOPLE’s free daily newsletter to stay up-to-date on the best of what PEOPLE has to offer, from celebrity news to compelling human interest stories. The minor was on a youth basketball team that Duffey coached. The mother claimed he allegedly kissed and touched her and was caught by another coach, per The Oklahoman . Sara Gilson and Lyle Landers. Facebook The girl told her mother that Duffey engaged in additional inappropriate behavior, including sending her messages, inviting her to his hotel room during a tournament trip and offering her money “to keep her quiet.” After Gilson’s death, a GoFundMe was established for Gilson and Landers’ two children, which has raised over $33,000, as of Aug. 4. “Sara was an incredible mom. Her children were the center of her world, and everything she did was for them. She loved them fiercely, worked hard to provide for them, and dreamed of giving them the best life possible,” the description reads. “We are creating this GoFundMe to help support Sara’s children as they navigate the difficult days, months, and years ahead.” If you suspect child abuse, call the Childhelp National Child Abuse Hotline at 1-800-4-A-Child or 1-800-422-4453, or go to www.childhelp.org . All calls are toll-free and confidential. The hotline is available 24/7 in more than 170 languages. If you are experiencing domestic violence, call the National Domestic Violence Hotline at 1-800-799-7233, or go to thehotline.org . All calls are toll-free and confidential. The hotline is available 24/7 in more than 170 languages. Close Leave a Comment Read More: Celebrity Celebrity Deaths Celebrity Death News Trending Now Motorcycle Influencer Ceyda Yakova, 22, Dies After Horror Crash: Reports Celebrity 7 days ago TikTok Star ‘Mama A’ Dies at Age 26 in Late-Night Car Crash Celebrity 7 days ago Adult Film Star Christian Styles Dies at Age 29 Celebrity August 24, 2026 Comments All comments are subject to our Community Guidelines . PEOPLE does not endorse the opinions and views shared by readers in our comment sections. Account Settings Sign Out Related Articles Influencer Marta Kelly Dies at Age 33, Days After Sharing Video from Plastic Surgery Consultation By Luke Chinman 18 Shelley Fabares’ Cause of Death Revealed 5 Days After She Died at Age 82 By Charna Flam and Gillian Telling 45 Influencer Lisa Mutalu Dies at Age 25 After Intense Vomiting Spell By Luke Chinman 2 Men Arrested After Influencer Sonia Bellina’s Dead Body Found Burned in Vineyard By Luke Chinman Street Outlaws Star Chris ‘Block’ Gordon Is Killed in ‘Devastating Accident’ at Ohio Racing Track By Julia Moore Bunny Levine, Actress Known for Gilmore Girls , La La Land and Law & Order , Dies at 97 By Escher Walcott 14 Autopsy Reveals New Details About Influencer Mara Flávia’s Death at 38 By Luke Chinman All the Photos from Dolly Parton’s Final PEOPLE Cover 9 Months Before Her Death By Tommy McArdle Influencer Ayesha Gilamana, 28, Shot Dead Inside Her Car: Reports By Luke Chinman 14 Dolly Parton Laid to Rest in Private Funeral After Her Death at Age 80 By Rachel DeSantis and Nicholas Rice 176 Dolly Parton’s Husband Carl Dean Died 17 Months Ago. Everything She Said About How the Heartbreaking Loss Affected Her By Bailey Richards 25 Claudia Schiffer, Delphine Arnault and Other Fashion Industry Elite Gather for Dior PR Executive Mathilde Favier’s Paris Funeral By Catherine Santino Cause of Death for Influencer Mara Flávia, 38, Revealed By Luke Chinman Dolly Parton Was Admitted to the Hospital 4 Days Before Her Death at 80 By Bailey Richards 286 Jackie Glass, Former Swift Justice Host and Judge Who Sentenced O.J. Simpson, Dies at 70 By Desiree Anello Dollywood President Assures Park Won’t Change Following ‘Dreamer-in-Chief’ Dolly Parton’s Death: We’ll ‘Keep Her Alive Here’ By Natalia Senanayake PEOPLE Get more in our free app Newsletters Follow Us News Entertainment Royals Lifestyle StyleWatch Shopping About Us PEOPLE Tested Editorial Policy Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Terms of Service Advertise Your Privacy Choices PEOPLE is part of the People Inc. publishing family. Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies