India’s monsoon rains in danger as UN chief warns planet is ‘on fire’ | El Niño southern oscillation | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness People wading through a waterlogged street in Ahmedabad last week. Photograph: Ajit Solanki/AP View image in fullscreen People wading through a waterlogged street in Ahmedabad last week. Photograph: Ajit Solanki/AP El Niño southern oscillation India’s monsoon rains in danger as UN chief warns planet is ‘on fire’ António Guterres says strengthening El Niño will help push the world’s climate crisis into ‘uncharted territory’ Fiona Harvey Environment editor Fri 31 Jul 2026 13.37 EDT First published on Fri 31 Jul 2026 12.24 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google India’s monsoon is in danger and hotter, drier conditions are forecast across much of the world as a stronger El Niño weather system is taking hold, weather experts have warned. António Guterres, the UN secretary general, said the strengthening El Niño was “adding fuel to a planet already on fire” and pushing the world into “uncharted territory”. The El Niño system will strengthen from August to October, which will bring higher temperatures globally, with increasing rainfall in some regions while others suffer drought, according to data and forecasts released by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) on Friday. Marine heatwaves have already shocked scientists this year and are set to intensify: the WMO said temperatures were likely to exceed 2.9C above normal in several regions. “The Pacific waters driving it have never been this warm this early in an El Niño, and temperatures are still increasing,” Guterres said. “[This year] risks shattering every seasonal record, and driving even more severe effects worldwide. We are in uncharted territory.” The risk of a weakened monsoon, which brings the rain on which Indian farmers rely, was highlighted as the forecast gave an “enhancement in the probability for below-normal rainfall”, which would produce increased drought, floods and wildfire risk around the Indian Ocean basin. Drier conditions are also likely across parts of equatorial Africa to the west of the Horn of Africa, across the south and east of Australia, large parts of South America and in North America. Higher than normal rainfall is expected in southern Europe, central Asia and the Horn of Africa and south-eastern South America. Extreme weather has already caused havoc around the world this summer, with record-breaking heatwaves beginning in May in the UK, and wildfires across France and Spain that have destroyed villages and displaced hundreds of thousands of people. View image in fullscreen A destroyed house after wildfires in the village of Le Porge, Gironde, France. Photograph: Catalina Martin-Chico/The Guardian Scientists have warned this year of the development of an El Niño, a weather system in the Pacific that frequently affects temperatures and rainfall around the world. Some El Niño years in the past have been relatively mild, but scientists have said that this year’s has been supercharged by the climate crisis. Warmer waters – earlier in the year than usual and with water temperatures still increasing – have led to predictions of a “super El Niño” forming. The WMO does not use this term, but has said that the weather system developing is likely to be significantly stronger and more intense than usual. Friday’s forecasts were the organisation’s latest update, covering August to October. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Weekly Sign up to Down to Earth The planet's most important stories. Get all the week's environment news - the good, the bad and the essential Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion A rain festival with no rain: the Indian farmers bracing for a ‘super’ El Niño as monsoon arrives late Read more Celeste Saulo, the secretary general of the WMO, called on governments to make preparations to help people affected by the heat, drought and potential floods that are likely in the months ahead. “El Niño is one of the most closely monitored climate phenomena in the world,” she said. “But forecasts in themselves do not prevent hazards, people do. This El Niño, developing against the backdrop of unprecedented ocean heat and rising temperatures, provides governments and communities with a window of opportunity to anticipate risks and act before impacts unfold. The decisions we make today will shape the impacts we experience tomorrow.” Guterres warned of the impacts on Friday and called for governments to take action on fossil fuels. “Two months ago, I warned that El Niño was arriving on our doorstep. Now it is inside the house, and turning up the heat,” he told reporters in New York. He added: “El Niño is strengthening – adding fuel to a planet already on fire with scorching heat domes, apocalyptic wildfires and record hot seas. Fossil fuels are fanning the flames of this crisis. Expansion must stop.” Guterres warned particularly of the risks to workers: “Heat is claiming lives on a growing scale, day after day, in every region of the world. It is also putting an enormous share of the global workforce at risk, exposing billions of people to dangers and often life-threatening conditions.” Separately, studies have shown that the extreme weather Europe is experiencing and the increasing likelihood of drought and wildfires have been “supercharged” by the climate crisis. Explore more on these topics El Niño southern oscillation India South and central Asia Extreme weather Climate crisis Drought news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Greece battles wildfires – in pictures 1d ago Romania blasts rock to divert water from drought-hit Danube to nuclear reactor 1d ago Two helicopters collide outside Athens as Greece battles to control wildfires 2d ago Ed Miliband indicates development and climate will be at heart of UK foreign policy 26 Jul 2026 Climate crisis-driven heat ‘sucking soils dry’ as extreme drought hits Europe 23 Jul 2026 ‘The breath just went out of us’: people return to their homes after wildfires near Madrid 6d ago Europe’s most effective tool to cut greenhouse gas emissions ‘risks being weakened’ 17 Jul 2026 Today in Focus In Bordeaux as the wildfires close in – podcast 6d ago Revealed: how Europe’s most powerful farming lobby killed EU’s pesticide law 16 Jul 2026 Three firefighters killed on Crete and in mainland Greece as Europe battles wildfires 6d ago Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)