AMD earnings are a key test for chips and momentum stocks. Here's what the options market is saying Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Options Action Options Action AMD earnings are a key test for chips and momentum stocks. Here's what the options market is saying Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 9:55 AM EDT Michael Khouw @Michael_Khouw WATCH LIVE In this article AMD Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 4:01 04:01 Why options traders might want to take a bearish approach to AMD's earnings Options Action As Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) prepares to report earnings Tuesday after the bell, market participants face a divergence between positive earnings results and negative price action. Historically, AMD shares experience significant post-earnings volatility, averaging a ~16.5% move (higher or lower) over the month following its announcement. However, the broader backdrop suggests a trade setup that captures some downside risk. The stock surged 18% last earnings. But it also fell 18% for the reporting period prior to that. Current options prices are implying a 7.3% move, slightly higher than the last 8 quarter median move of 6.4% At a high level, AMD's technical picture has deteriorated rapidly across multiple timeframes and indicators. For example, momentum and trend metrics, including Stochastics, Ichimoku, MACD, Williams %R, and key moving averages, are all signaling a short bias. (I identify when and how profitable those indicators have been in the accompanying video.) AMD, 1 year But it's not just AMD's price action ahead of earnings that causes concern. Since July 1st, 45 tech hardware and semiconductor companies have reported earnings. While operations look solid on paper, 38 beat top-line expectations (35 with actual growth vs. 9 declines), 37 logged earnings growth, and 36 beat on the bottom line, market reaction has been overwhelmingly negative. Relentless Pullback: The 1-month average price performance across these 45 companies stands at -13.4%, with 36 of the 45 trading lower since July 1st. By comparison, the S&P 500 has remained flat while the Nasdaq-100 (QQQ) has pulled back roughly 5%. Do these results indicate fundamental weakness? No, but good results continue to receive a tepid reception, and disappointing results are severely punished. This disconnect highlights a high hurdle rate for IT hardware. Capital is actively rotating away from tech hardware into defensive and value-oriented sectors such as Healthcare, Financials, and Industrials. Even strong reports are meeting heavy sell-on-news pressure. To capitalize on potential downside drift or post-earnings weakness while managing volatility crush, a calendar spread offers an asymmetrical risk/reward structure. Proposed Strategy: September 11 / November $430 Calendar Put Spread Cost: Just under $23 per spread. Sell the September 11 430-strike put for $30 Buy the November 430-strike put for $53 Profit Zone: Profitability is expected across a stock price range of roughly $370 to $525. Rationale: Selling the shorter-dated September 11th put captures the post-earnings "volatility crush," while holding the longer-dated November put maintains directional exposure if the post-earnings downward drift persists. In other words, you are using the power of time decay and the natural collapse in volatility in the shorter-dated put to finance the purchase of the longer dated put. This will also help offset the time decay in the longer dated November put. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. More In Options Action watch now watch now VIDEO 01:10 SpaceX sees close to $1 billion in premium traded ahead of earnings Oliver Renick 2 hours ago watch now watch now VIDEO 01:18 Options traders load up on bullish SpaceX calls Oliver Renick 4 hours ago watch now watch now VIDEO 01:46 Options Action: Options optimism as stocks rip Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by