Can Palantir pull off a Microsoft-style comeback? Here's what options say Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Options Action Options Action Can Palantir pull off a Microsoft-style comeback? Here's what options say Published Mon, Aug 3 2026 2:34 PM EDT Oliver Renick @OJRenick WATCH LIVE In this article PLTR Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 1:25 01:25 Options Action: Palantir reports after bell Options Action Hopes are running high that high-profile software provider Palantir can shake off its nine-month bear market and rally after earnings Monday night. After all, the chart of Microsoft was looking similar going into its report, and that stock's now in the midst of a three-day, 25% bounce. The options flows around Palantir also mirror Microsoft going into its report, where traders were scooping up calls and betting on a bigger-than-usual swing. More than twice as many Palantir calls traded than puts by volume Monday, with traders buying 56,000 calls and fewer than 25,000 puts, according to ThinkOrSwim data. Of the $160 million in premium traded, $120 million was tied to calls, and the top five contracts traded by volume were all calls, SpotGamma data show. Palantir, 1-year The most popular contract for bulls was the 130-strike call expiring Friday, where traders bought 8,500 contracts totaling $4.4 million, according to SpotGamma. Trading for $5.30 a contract, the 130-strike calls need an 8 percent rally before the weekend to pay off. The 150 and 140-strike calls were second and third-most popular by volume. Cboe LiveVol data shows options pricing implying a 10.5% move after earnings, bigger than the median 7.4% move the past year. For the past five straight quarters, Palantir options have overestimated the actual move, the data show. The heavy call volume doesn't mean bears aren't taking shots. In fact, seven of the eight biggest dollar-amount trades of the day were neutral or bearish, according to Cboe data. That includes the biggest premium trade of the day, a sale of 800 of the 145-strike calls in Palantir that expire in mid-December 2028, a bearish bet against extensive gains in the stock that brought in $3.4 million for the seller. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. More In Options Action watch now watch now VIDEO 01:12 Options Action: Broadcom and Dell report next week an hour ago watch now watch now VIDEO 00:51 Options Action: VIX hits year-to-date low Stock traders warm up to Warsh as volatility index touches year-to-date low Oliver Renick Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by