US FAA certifies Boeing 737 MAX 7 in win for planemaker - AOL Advertisement Home Milton, GA Milton, GA Local News Subscriptions Animals Entertainment Finance Food Games Health Home & Garden News Shopping Style Travel True Crime Back Finance Finance Banking Business News Estate & Retirement Planning Loans & Mortgages Back News News Business Lighter Side Politics Science & Tech Sports Weather Menu 24/7 Help For premium support please call: 800 - 290 - 4726 more ways to reach us Sign in Mail 24/7 Help For premium support please call: 800 - 290 - 4726 more ways to reach us Mail Sign in Home Milton, GA Milton, GA Local News Subscriptions Animals Entertainment Finance Food Games Health Home & Garden News Shopping Style Travel True Crime Back Finance Finance Banking Business News Estate & Retirement Planning Loans & Mortgages Back News News Business Lighter Side Politics Science & Tech Sports Weather Sign in Home Milton, GA Milton, GA Local News Subscriptions Animals Entertainment Finance Food Games Health Home & Garden News Shopping Style Travel True Crime Back Finance Finance Banking Business News Estate & Retirement Planning Loans & Mortgages Back News News Business Lighter Side Politics Science & Tech Sports Weather US FAA certifies Boeing 737 MAX 7 in win for planemaker By David Shepardson and Dan Catchpole Updated Mon, August 3, 2026 at 6:13 PM UTC 0 By David Shepardson and Dan Catchpole WASHINGTON/SEATTLE, August 3 (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration gave long-awaited approval on Monday to Boeing's 737 MAX 7, a milestone for the American planemaker that has waited years to sell the smallest version of its best-selling airplane. Boeing has faced a more stringent certification process since two fatal MAX 8 crashes in 2018 and ​2019, as well as ​scrutiny of the ⁠company's production and quality systems after a January 2024 mid-air cabin panel blowout on a nearly new Alaska Airlines MAX 9. Boeing's share price rose about 1.2% after Reuters first reported the news of the MAX 7 certification, and was up 6.7% for the day. The FAA after almost a decade of review required Boeing to incorporate key improvements and address recommendations from the National Transportation Safety Board, including updates to the flight-control software, flight crew alerting system, and a redesigned engine anti-ice system. The jetliner's certification was years behind schedule. At one point, Boeing had said it expected the plane to be approved before the end of 2022. Boeing said on Monday that preparations are underway to support first deliveries. The MAX 7 offers 135 to 160 seats while providing about 10% more range potential than other MAX planes. The Boeing 737 MAX 7 began testing in 2018. Boeing and Southwest Airlines, the 737 MAX 7 launch customer, are preparing for delivery of the first airplane. Southwest Airlines said it is pleased with the approval and looks forward to the plane entering service in the coming months. Southwest does not have the MAX 7 on its current schedule, which is through March 2027. Advertisement FAA Deputy Administrator Chris Rocheleau told Reuters last month that he thought approval of the larger MAX 10 would be "right behind" the MAX 7. Stephanie Pope, Boeing's head of commercial airplanes, told employees in a memo on Monday that the company learned "important lessons that we are already applying to the 737-10 and that are accelerating our work as we complete the 737 MAX airplane family and then the 777X programs." Boeing already has built about 30 MAX 7s and nine MAX 10s, which are awaiting delivery, ‌according ⁠to aviation analytics firm Cirium. The MAX 10 accounts for at least 28% of outstanding MAX orders. FAA ​Administrator Bryan Bedford told Reuters in July that the agency and Boeing ​have improved ⁠work on certifying new planes. Boeing in 2022 faced a deadline set by Congress to win certification of the two variants of the MAX before a new safety standard on cockpit alerts was to take effect. Congress ultimately agreed to waive that requirement. The FAA said in December the MAX 10 would have an enhanced flight crew alerting system, which will include a way to shut off stall warning and overspeed alerts. The FAA last October gave Boeing approval to raise its 737 MAX production to 42 planes per month, ending a 38-plane cap in place since January 2024 after the Alaska incident. The agency in March then allowed Boeing to hike production to 47 planes per month. Last month, the FAA said it would let Boeing issue airworthiness certificates for all 737 MAX and 787 airplanes after an extensive review showed that the company had demonstrated "consistent production ​quality." (Reporting by David Shepardson and Dan Catchpole; additional reporting by Rajesh Kumar Singh Editing by Mark Porter and Will Dunham) Show comments 0 Advertisement From Our Partners Advertisement Don't miss our daily roundup. Stay informed with a handpicked selection of the day's top AOL stories, delivered to your inbox. *Invalid email address Thanks for signing up. Thank you for signing up. You will receive a confirmation email shortly. Stay informed with a handpicked selection of the day's top AOL stories, delivered to your inbox. *Invalid email address In Other News Entertainment Entertainment Entertainment Weekly 'Wheel of Fortune' announcer Jim Thornton suspended amid ‘allegations concerning’ him Finance Finance Reuters Dollar steadies near two-week high as Middle East hostilities lift oil Finance Reuters US urges hands-off approach to AI regulation at G20 tech meeting Food Food Serious Eats We tasted 31 veggie burgers. These 5 are crisp, hearty and felicious Food Eating Well This protein-packed chocolate mousse uses only 4 ingredients Lighter Side Lighter Side The Telegraph Here comes the tide: Couple married in waist-deep floodwaters Lighter Side BuzzFeed 13 adults confess their most embarrassing moments with their parents Sports Sports Associated Press Gael Monfils wins on his 40th birthday at the US Open to extend his Grand Slam career Sports People NHL prospect who collapsed during college workout has ‘zero chance of recovery,’ fami… Weather Weather Associated Press Edouard weakens into a tropical depression after landfall but still dumping rain into… Weather KHON Honolulu Hurricane Lowell now Category 4: What this means for Hawaii Advertisement Animals | Business | Celebrity | Entertainment | Finance | Food | Health | News | Politics | Shopping | Sports | Style | True Crime Feedback Help Join AOL EU Digital Services Act Terms and Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices About Us About Our Ads Advertising Licensing Sitemap © 2026 AOL Media LLC. All rights reserved.