Data centers are a top issue in midterms for voters, candidates : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Data centers are a top issue in midterms for voters, candidates Wisconsin Democratic candidate for governor Francesca Hong called for a moratorium on data centers. So did Ohio Republican governor hopeful Vivek Ramaswamy, as data centers begin to dominate campaigns. Elections Data centers are a political issue crossing party lines, driving voters to candidates August 8, 2026 5:00 AM ET Tamara Keith An aerial view of a data center on April 14 in Vernon, Calif. A surge in demand for AI infrastructure is fueling a boom in data centers across the country and around the globe. Mario Tama/Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Mario Tama/Getty Images Two months after OpenAI and Oracle broke ground on a massive data center campus in Saline Township, Michigan, Democratic U.S. Senate candidate Abdul El-Sayed held a rally in front of the site, using the controversial project as a backdrop for his insurgent campaign. "I stand with local and state elected officials saying that we cannot approve any more of these until we have federal-level guardrails," said El-Sayed with community activists standing by his side. Data centers, the giant, windowless, server-filled buildings are the backbone of the AI boom. They are also deeply unpopular. A Gallup poll from earlier this year found 7 in 10 Americans oppose the construction of an AI data center in their area. So, perhaps it's not a surprise that candidates across the political spectrum are trying to tap into the backlash. Sponsor Message National Data centers are expensive, unpopular — and could be a tipping point in the midterms El-Sayed narrowly won his primary earlier this week, and while data centers weren't the centerpiece of his pitch to voters, they do tie into key themes of his campaign — populist economics and getting money out of politics. "Unless and until we protect local communities from the power of corrupting money and politics, we're going to continue to see projects like this get pushed on to local communities despite themselves," El-Sayed said. In Ohio, the Republican nominee for governor, Vivek Ramaswamy, released an " Ohioans-first data center pledge " this week, which called for legislation and, until it passes, a moratorium on data center construction in the state. "A top concern I hear from Ohioans across our state — second only to property taxes — is the accelerating pace of data center expansion," he said in a statement released by his campaign. "The data center industry has badly failed to earn the trust of millions of everyday Ohioans." Among the complaints he said he has heard are rising electric bills, noise, pollution and "the absence of clearly defined economic benefits for Ohio families." Ramaswamy even called for data center companies to cover the power bills of people who live nearby. This followed Ohio Democratic candidate for governor Amy Acton's plan for a " conditional moratorium " on data centers released last month along with a broadside that "Ohio cannot trust Vivek Ramaswamy to protect communities from his fellow big-tech billionaires." A person holds signs during a nationwide protest against AI data center expansion outside Peace Hall in New Port Richey, Fla. on July 18, 2026. Thomas Simonetti/AFP via Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Thomas Simonetti/AFP via Getty Images In Michigan's 7th Congressional District, Democrat William Lawrence didn't set out to campaign against data centers. But it quickly became a key plank in his platform because voters kept bringing it up to him. Sponsor Message "It wasn't something that I expected to be part of the campaign last August because data centers weren't on our radar," said Lawrence, who won in a primary against two more moderate Democrats. "But there have been four data centers proposed in the district since I declared my candidacy." In Wisconsin, calling for a moratorium on data center construction has helped Francesca Hong build a broad coalition as she runs for the Democratic nomination for governor. She talks about data centers a lot and voters are noticing. "It's time to press control+alt+delete to put a stop to this AI data center crisis, a full moratorium until we have the new regulations we need to protect our energy costs, our economy, our environment," Hong said in a video released by her campaign. Voting ends Tuesday in Wisconsin and recent polls show Hong favored to win. Here & Now Anytime What's behind America's data center revolt? At a recent Hong campaign event, supporter Peggy McCrumb didn't hesitate when asked why she backs the candidate. "I don't think anyone wants data centers, and she's the only one who stands up against it," McCrumb said. "So she's actually listening to what people want." Hong is a democratic socialist. But this issue cuts through the usual partisan divides, says Amanda Litman, the founder of Run For Something, which works with Democrats running for state and local office. She says these data centers are the most tangible, physical representation of the threat people perceive from AI, whether it's higher energy prices or making jobs obsolete. "We're hearing it from urban, from rural, from suburban," Litman said of data center anxiety. "We're hearing it in red states, blue states, purple states. It's all kinds of communities, which I think is really speaking to how visceral people feel this is coming for them." data centers 2026 primary elections 2026 midterms Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR The Picture Show The Women's Professional Baseball League makes its historic debut Elections The role of data centers in the Democratic primaries A tale of two very different horny movies Politics Senate votes to confirm Todd Blanche as attorney general Life Kit Secrets to a successful couple's trip : Life Kit National Wildfires in urban areas are more common. That may have helped Spokane More Stories From NPR Elections Here are Hawaii's 2026 primary election results Elections Here are Tennessee's 2026 primary election results Consider This from NPR What do Tuesday’s primaries signal about where the Democratic Party is headed? Politics Progressive Abdul El-Sayed wins Michigan's Democratic primary for Senate Elections Progressives see biggest win yet in Michigan, while Trump flexes power over GOP Elections Primaries in the Midwest have become a high stakes proving ground for progressives Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! ‘Wait Wait’ for August 8, 2026: With Not My Job guest Sally Field Pop Culture Happy Hour A tale of two very different horny movies Family Amid cost of living stress, many parents are supporting children well into adulthood World Switzerland is a neutral nation but has more nuclear bunkers than any country in the world The Picture Show The Women's Professional Baseball League makes its historic debut Ukraine invasion — explained Ukraine mourns 'collector of souls' Oleksiy Yukov, killed recovering war dead NPR Editors' Picks The Americas K-pop's global wave inspires Chile's next pop stars Immigration Private prisons announce $1.4 billion in revenue as immigration detentions climb Health Reporting in the States Federal funds can't be used to give test strips to drug users, raising overdose fears The Ripple Effect How Jim James and Jeff Tweedy learned to love the Grateful Dead Politics Senate votes to confirm Todd Blanche as attorney general Economy Trump renews push to fire Fed Governor Lisa Cook Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices