The Keurig K-Supreme Coffee Maker Is 53% Off Right Now: Deal of the Day IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Top stories Owala’s back-to-school sale is here The best keratosis pilaris treatments for smoother skin Packing your skin care and makeup is so much easier with this toiletry bag How often should you change and wash your towels REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gearpost, REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gear Walmart has up to 65% off back-to-school must-haves 35+ college-exclusive back-to-school deals Skip to Content About Us Wellness All Wellness Skin Care Hair Care Oral Care Health Fitness Sleep Home All Home Small appliances Bedding & bath Cleaning Vacuums Office Gardening Kitchen All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech All Tech Electronics Personal Tech TVs Audio Computers Cameras Pets All Pets Dogs Cats Pet Care Lifestyle All Lifestyle Sports Travel Parenting Apparel Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping Subscribe Share About Us Wellness Main Menu All Wellness Skin Care Wellness All Skin Care Hair Care Wellness All Hair Care Oral Care Wellness All Oral Care Health Wellness All Health Fitness Wellness All Fitness Sleep Wellness All Sleep Home Main Menu All Home Small appliances Home All Small appliances Bedding & bath Home All Bedding & bath Cleaning Home All Cleaning Vacuums Home All Vacuums Office Home All Office Gardening Kitchen Main Menu All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech Main Menu All Tech Electronics Tech All Electronics Personal Tech Tech All Personal Tech TVs Tech All TVs Audio Tech All Audio Computers Cameras Pets Main Menu All Pets Dogs Pets All Dogs Cats Pets All Cats Pet Care Pets All Pet Care Lifestyle Main Menu All Lifestyle Sports Travel Lifestyle All Travel Parenting Apparel Lifestyle All Apparel Footwear Lifestyle All Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales Main Menu All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories Main Menu All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides Main Menu All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping More from NBC Sign up for the Selected Newsletter Check out Shop TODAY NBC News TODAY About Help Careers Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information CA Notice Terms Of Service NBC News Sitemap Advertise Ad Choices Follow Selected © 2026 NBCNEWS.COM NBC Selected independently determines what we cover and recommend. When you click on or buy through our links, we earn a commission. Learn more . Deals and Sales This Keurig coffee maker is a space-saving essential for dorms and small apartments, and it’s 53% off The travel mug-friendly coffee maker has customizable brew strength and a dorm-ready design. Aug. 5, 2026, 7:00 AM EDT Jem Alabi Editorial Operations Associate Skip to table of contents The Keurig K-Supreme features MultiStream brewing technology to maximize flavor and four cup-size options. Keurig Back-to-school season is one of the best times to stock up on essentials, and coffee makers are near the top of the list for many students; especially college-bound and graduate students who’ll need their daily dose of caffeine. Right now, the Keurig K-Supreme is 53% off. The coffee maker is compact enough to fit in a dorm room, is travel mug-friendly, brews coffee, tea and hot cocoa, and lets you customize the strength of your drink. Keep reading to learn about more of its features and why this deal is worth grabbing today, plus, find out how you can get the appliance plus coffee for 70% off. Deal of the day Keurig K-Supreme Single-Serve Coffee Maker 31,018 Amazon Reviews $ 89.00 $ 189.99 Keurig Now 53% off $ 99.99 $ 189.99 Amazon Now 47% off We’re big fans of single-serve Keurigs at NBC Selected, and the K-Supreme is especially useful for busy mornings. Currently on sale for $89 (down from $189.99), the brewer makes coffee in minutes and supports back-to-back brewing, so you can make a second cup without waiting for the machine to reheat. It uses Keurig’s MultiStream Technology, which means fuller flavor and aroma for your coffee, according to the brand. It also heats up in minutes, making it a convenient option for busy mornings when you’re rushing to class or just need hot water for instant noodles or oatmeal. The machine offers four brew sizes (6, 8, 10 and 12 ounces), can brew hot or over ice, and accommodates travel mugs for grab-and-go convenience. Its dual-position water reservoir helps save valuable space in dorm rooms, small coffee bars and kitchens with limited counters, and it even reminds users to descale after every 250 brews. For even bigger savings, shoppers can purchase a starter kit at Keurig , and get 70% off. It includes an extended warranty on the machine and auto-delivery of coffee pods for 12 months (at an additional monthly charge). This deal arrived just in time for National Coffee Month (August), with Keurig offering promotions through Aug. 18, including up to 30% off brewers with code COFFEEMONTH. More compact Keurig coffee machines on sale 44% off Keurig K-Mini Mate 36% off Keuring K-Express 28% off Keurig K-Mini Why this deal is worth it $89.00 vs. $189.99 Comes in three different colors Offers four cup sizes Travel mug friendly Can brew hot or over ice Has a dual-position water reservoir to help maximize counter space Related selected selected The best portable coffee makers for travel, camping and tiny counters Want more from NBC Selected? Sign up for our newsletter, The Selection, and shop smarter. Why trust NBC Selected? As the editorial operations associate at NBC Selected, I regularly test products and cover the best deals across categories. For this piece, I checked several retailers and price trackers for information on Keurig’s K-Supreme coffee machine. Catch up on NBC Selected’s in-depth coverage of tech and tools , wellness and more, and follow us on Facebook , Instagram , Twitter and TikTok to stay up to date. Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off Jem Alabi Jem is the editorial operations associate for NBC Selected. This Keurig coffee maker is a space-saving essential for dorms and small apartments, and it’s 53% off These viral organizing bins maximize closet and dorm space, and they’re 40% off Owala’s back-to-school sale is here, with bestselling water bottles 20% off Latest articles Morgan Dawson contributed . Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off ABOUT CONTACT HELP CAREERS PRIVACY POLICY DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION CA NOTICE TERMS OF SERVICE NBC NEWS SITEMAP AD CHOICES ADVERTISE DEALS & SALES SKIN CARE HEALTH TECH NBCNews.com © 2026 SELECTED | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.