Disney, TikTok partner on content sharing as creators fuel fandom | Marketing Dive Skip to main content Don't miss tomorrow's marketing industry news Let Marketing Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox. Daily Dive M-F Mobile Weekly Every Thursday Agencies Weekly Every Monday By signing up to receive our newsletter, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . You can unsubscribe at anytime. Informa TechTarget | CX Dive Retail Dive Social Media Today Explore our brands An Informa TechTarget Publication Deep Dive Library Events Press Releases Topics Subscribe Search Subscribe Search People also ask Loading questions... Mobile Creative Social Media Video Agencies Data/Analytics Influencer Marketing Ad Tech CMO Corner Brand Strategy An article from Dive Brief Disney, TikTok partner on content sharing as creators fuel fandom The two will run a Disney Creator Ambassador program that provides creators with access to film and TV series tied to franchises including Marvel and Star Wars. Published Aug. 5, 2026 Peter Adams Senior Reporter Share Copy link Email LinkedIn X/Twitter Facebook Print License Add us on Google A Disney logo is shown on a screen before The Walt Disney Studios presentation during CinemaCon. Disney and TikTok see content creators as an important driver of fan culture. Ethan Miller via Getty Images Listen to the article 4 min This audio is auto-generated. Please let us know if you have feedback . Dive Brief: The Walt Disney Company and TikTok are partnering on a content-sharing deal that unites the entertainment giant’s iconic intellectual property with social media creators, according to a press release . Creators will be able to use assets from hundreds of Disney films and TV shows, including franchises like Marvel and Star Wars, to produce fan content. Videos will then appear on both TikTok and Verts, a vertical video feature on Disney+’s mobile app. The jointly-run Disney Creator Ambassador Program operates on a tiered system. Top-performing creators will receive rewards, including boosted visibility and access to exclusive events and career development opportunities. Dive Insight: Disney and TikTok’s new pact speaks to both the high value IP holders are placing on fandom and the larger role creators are playing in fostering those types of avid followings, particularly among young consumers. The agreement will enter a pilot phase in the U.S. in the coming months, but the plan is to scale it globally over time. As more marketers embrace creators, the deal also points to how perks like exclusive access to events could have a bigger role in creator programs. For TikTok, the deal provides creators on its app an easier way to access licensed content from major franchises and entertainment brands, including Marvel, Pixar, Star Wars and FX. Disney meanwhile is looking for an opportunity to shore up its connection to fan communities and more regularly engage Disney+ subscribers through its mobile app by drawing on popular TikTok videos. Creator content will run on Verts, a vertical video feature that launched on Disney+’s mobile app in March . Verts is part of a larger trend of streaming platforms introducing mobile-first offerings to appeal to consumers whose watch time habits are diversifying away from living room screens. A tie-up with TikTok follows the collapse of a short-lived, $1 billion licensing deal between Disney and OpenAI. That partnership was similarly centered around building a user-generated content pipeline for Disney+, with videos created by OpenAI’s Sora. OpenAI shut down the video-generation tool in a surprise move in March. “Disney’s TikTok partnership feels like a do-over of its failed Sora initiative. Disney has, ironically, come to terms with the value of fan-created content built around its popular IP and, using TikTok, just found another way to get there,” Forrester Vice President and Research Director Mike Proulx wrote in emailed comments. “With TikTok, Disney is basically plugging into the world's largest fandom platform. TikTok already has the creators, the audience, and the recommendation engine.” In a summer where box office records are being shattered thanks to blockbuster franchise installments , it’s not hard to see how collaborating more deeply with TikTok could further fuel Disney’s marketing engine behind new releases as well. Last year, TikTok users shared an average of 6.5 million film and TV-related posts daily, internal data from the social media app found. Half of surveyed viewers went on to watch a TV series or film after discovering content on TikTok. The news is another sign that social media content is colliding in a more significant way with the world of streaming TV. Tubi, the ad-supported service owned by Fox, also teamed with TikTok in March on a creator incubator program that brings rising social media stars to its platform. Disney on Wednesday reported earnings that beat Wall Street’s estimates , though revenue came in under expectations. Streaming revenue, which is largely comprised of Disney+ and Hulu, jumped 11% to $5.3 billion for the period. The company also announced it closed out its upfront negotiations, where it brokers ad-spending commitments, seeing double-digit volume gains and sold-out inventory for Super Bowl LXI next year. Recommended Reading Disney unveils TikTok-like vertical video, AI video generation tool By Aaron Baar • Jan. 12, 2026 Disney streamlines marketing into one unit focused on cohesion, agility By Peter Adams • Jan. 15, 2026 TikTok, Tubi start creator program to bring social stars to streaming By Peter Adams • March 19, 2026 Add us on Google Share Copy link Email LinkedIn X/Twitter Facebook Print License Filed Under: Mobile, Social Media, Video Marketing Dive news delivered to your inbox Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Email: Select Newsletter: Daily Dive M-F Select Newsletter: Mobile Weekly Every Thursday Select Newsletter: Agencies Weekly Every Monday Select user consent: By signing up to receive our newsletter, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . You can unsubscribe at anytime. Sign up A valid email address is required. Please select at least one newsletter. Editors' picks Getty Images Deep Dive How brands can assert control as AI rewrites advertising’s playbook As promises of one-stop, AI-powered solutions proliferate, marketers will need to navigate the changed ecosystem and separate reality from hype. By Chris Kelly • Jan. 20, 2026 Courtesy of Garage Beer Deep Dive What marketers need to know as branded films return to screens E.l.f., Garage Beer and Texas Pete executives dig into the concerns and opportunities around a resurgent trend in long-form content. By Chris Kelly • April 23, 2026 Get the free newsletter Subscribe to Marketing Dive for top news, trends & analysis Email: Select Newsletter: Daily Dive M-F Select Newsletter: Mobile Weekly Every Thursday Select Newsletter: Agencies Weekly Every Monday Select user consent: By signing up to receive our newsletter, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . You can unsubscribe at anytime. Sign up A valid email address is required. Please select at least one newsletter. Take your knowledge further with Sign up for the free newsletter. Interested? Explore more of what has to offer. One-click newsletter signup You're all set Thanks for signing up! Please keep an eye out for a confirmation email from [email protected] To ensure we make it into your inbox regularly, add us to your allow list, mark us as a safe sender, or add us to your address book. Check out more from Most Popular How Domino’s is taking on the Big Mac, Whopper and other fast-food icons How Hershey’s Katseye campaign takes on Gen Z’s desire for indulgence Chipotle deploys 100 creators for latest ads spotlighting fresh food Amazon’s ad auction surcharges secretly bilked brands of billions, FTC alleges Library resources Survey Report Confident and Wrong: Brand Leaders, Their AI, and the Data Custom content for A.Team Innovation Virtual Event Playback Lasting Loyalty: Winning and Keeping Today's Consumer Trendline AI’s impact on marketing strategies Supported by Wrike View all Company Announcements View all | Post a press release What We're Reading Adweek WPP’s Alleged Global Rebate Scheme, Told Through Three Court Cases Digiday How every major platform pays creators Bloomberg YouTube Inks Amazon Partnership to Boost Online Shopping Bet View all Events View all | Promote an event Industry Intel Master the Art of Driving Webinar Registration and Attendance Webinar - on demand • Provided by ON24 Hit Subscribe: How Creative Subscriptions Are Changing the Marketing Game Webinar - on demand • Provided by Design Pickle Still think "publish more" is the answer? Webinar - on demand • Provided by Contentful Marketing Dive news delivered to your inbox Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Email: Select Newsletter: Daily Dive M-F Select Newsletter: Mobile Weekly Every Thursday Select Newsletter: Agencies Weekly Every Monday Select user consent: By signing up to receive our newsletter, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . You can unsubscribe at anytime. Sign up A valid email address is required. Please select at least one newsletter. Company Announcements View all | Post a press release FouAnalytics Releases Public MSA Boilerplate for Measurement-First Digital Media Governance From FouAnalytics Inc September 01, 2026 MERGE Acquires Brado's Digital and Insight Practices to Deepen Behavioral Research and Acceler… From MERGE September 01, 2026 Gatorade leads YouGov’s 2026 U.S. beverage rankings as Dasani and Starbucks gain ground From YouGov August 25, 2026 AS AGENCIES RACE TO AUTOMATE & THE INDUSTRY CUTS SENIOR STAFF, SUPER NICE IS MAKING A DELIBERA… From Super Nice August 13, 2026 Editors' picks Permission granted by Shutterstock for Advertising Week New York Kraft Heinz CMO on being culturally nimble without losing brand equity From a condiment collaboration with hip-hop producer Mustard to a Weinermobile race, Todd Kaplan tries to keep activations rooted in insights. By Peter Adams • Oct. 7, 2025 Courtesy of Urban Outfitters Deep Dive How Gen Z is reshaping holiday marketing — and what brands can do about it The cohort’s reliance on social media and influencers for product discovery remains, while new levels of comfort with retail media and AI take shape. By Jessica Hammers • Nov. 19, 2025 Latest in Mobile Why Dr. Squatch is investing in experiences — not ads — with IShowSpeed By Chris Kelly Snapchat’s bid to simplify mobile marketing measurement goes global By Peter Adams How Domino’s is taking on the Big Mac, Whopper and other fast-food icons By Chris Kelly Is Starbucks’ Pumpkin Spice Latte ‘basic’? Martha Stewart answers in new ads By Peter Adams Explore About Editorial Team Contact Us Newsletter Purchase Licensing Rights Press Releases What We're Reading CPM Calculator Reach our audience Advertising Post a press release Promote an event Related Publications CX Dive Retail Dive Social Media Today This website is owned and operated by Informa TechTarget , a global network that informs, influences and connects the world's technology buyers and sellers. © 2025 TechTarget, Inc. or its subsidiaries. All rights reserved. An Informa PLC company. Privacy policy | Terms of use | Take down policy | Cookie Preferences / Do Not Sell Search Home Topics Mobile Creative Social Media Video Agencies Data/Analytics Influencer Marketing Ad Tech CMO Corner Brand Strategy Deep Dive Library Events Press Releases Get Marketing Dive in your inbox The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines Email: Select Newsletter: Daily Dive M-F Select Newsletter: Mobile Weekly Every Thursday Select Newsletter: Agencies Weekly Every Monday Select user consent: By signing up to receive our newsletter, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . You can unsubscribe at anytime. Sign up A valid email address is required. Please select at least one newsletter.