Thailand school shooting: eight killed including suspected attacker, police say | Thailand | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 4 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Schoolgirls being carried away from the scene of the shooting in Bang Kruai district of Nonthaburi province. Photograph: Wason Wanichakorn/AP View image in fullscreen Schoolgirls being carried away from the scene of the shooting in Bang Kruai district of Nonthaburi province. Photograph: Wason Wanichakorn/AP Thailand Thailand school shooting: eight killed including suspected attacker, police say Teenager killed his grandparents ⁠before opening fire at school near Bangkok, where more than 30 were wounded Natasha May in Bangkok Fri 7 Aug 2026 10.16 EDT First published on Fri 7 Aug 2026 00.44 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google A Thai teenager killed his grandparents before opening fire at his school, where he shot five people dead and took his own life, police have said, in an attack that has shaken a country struggling to deal with gun violence. The 14-year-old wounded more than 30 people in the ⁠shooting at the prestigious Debsirin Nonthaburi school northwest of Bangkok. Nine people were in a critical condition, the Thai health department said. For Prompong Namwong, an English teacher at the school, it was a normal morning until a panicked student from another class flung open the door, trying to find somewhere to hide. In the corridor, Prompong heard other teachers shouting that there had been a mass shooting downstairs. View image in fullscreen Prompong Namwong. Photograph: Natasha May When Prompong recounted the ordeal to the Guardian, he hesitated between calling the 14-year-old, whom he saw run in front of his classroom, “killer” or “student”. At that moment, “I thought I was going to die, for sure,” he said. The suspected attacker fired at least 26 bullets with a gun belonging to his grandfather, and was found with 34 additional ammunition rounds. 1:06 Students seek safety during Thai school shooting – video The suspected shooter remained inside the school after reports of the attack emerged, Arsit Sampantharat, the permanent secretary of the interior ministry, told PPTV. A lockdown at the school was declared over in about half an hour. Prompong said that when he heard a knock, he thought it was the end of his life, but instead it was the police coming to their rescue. Images from the scene showed students running with only socks on their feet as they were evacuated from the school. Locator map The children, as is customary across Asia, had taken their shoes off outside their classrooms, but in the panic to escape the grounds, the shoes were left strewn around lunch tables and the stairs outside classrooms. By the afternoon, the sports area where the students would usually have been playing was filled with officials and the media, as the country’s leader vowed to implement new gun laws. The prime minister, Anutin Charnvirakul, told reporters the new law would allow only government officials on duty to carry guns, but did not provide any ⁠specifics, including whether the legislation would tighten gun ownership requirements. Thailand has the highest rate of civilian gun ownership in south-east Asia , and in 2017 the Switzerland-based Small Arms Survey placed the country 13th worldwide for small-gun possession. A number of mass shootings have occurred in recent years in Thailand, including incidents at schools and a large Bangkok mall, and a 2022 attack in the country’s north-east that ‌killed 37 people including 22 children. The country’s licensing regime still lacks mental health screening for people applying to have a ⁠gun and does not require periodic reassessments ​for licence holders, according to Piyaporn Tunneekul, an ​associate professor at Nakhon Pathom Rajabhat University in Thailand. View image in fullscreen Police at the scene in Bang Kruai district. Photograph: Lillian Suwanrumpha/AFP/Getty Images Pichanan Thiengtham was in the teachers’ lounge when she heard the shots at about 10am. But she said she could not believe at first that it was a gun: “There were so many shots and they lasted for a long time without stopping.” It was only when the art teacher saw one of the injured students that she realised what was happening. “I took the injured student to get first aid and then transferred them to the hospital [in the school] building.” Kiatikhun Verapongpradith, an emergency worker, described arriving as the shooting was taking place. He said his team had treated students with injuries to the back, chest and arms. They found a male teacher lying dead on an upper floor of the school, and in another room they found a female teacher with wounds to her chest and arm, Kiatikhun said. View image in fullscreen An injured teacher receiving medical attention at the scene on the outskirts of Bangkok. Photograph: Chalinee Thirasupa/Reuters The school is part of the Debsirin network, founded by the Thai royal family. Its alumni include prime ministers, scholars and writers. Prompong found out in the school’s group chat that some of his friends had not survived. “They’re all good teachers. I don’t know what to say.” He said: “My life has to go on, but right now … it’s a very great shock. I never thought to myself that it would happen – really happen – in my school.” Reuters and the Associated Press contributed to this report Explore more on these topics Thailand Gun crime Asia Pacific news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)