Care worker mistakenly fed Portsmouth woman dog food - report - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions Hampshire & Isle of Wight Apology after carer fed dog food to elderly woman by mistake Image source, Getty Images Image caption, The woman ate three mouthfuls of food labelled "for adult dogs and puppies" (stock image) By Marcus White South of England Published 5 August 2026, 06:07 BST A home carer unintentionally fed an elderly woman microwaved dog food, an investigation has found. The Radis Community Care worker logged the meal, from the client's freezer, as a "lamb dinner", before a second carer saw the packaging and realised the mistake, the report said. The food was just one instance of poor care over three months with some "abysmal failures", the Local Government and Social Care Ombudsman concluded. Portsmouth City Council said it no longer commissioned services from Radis. Both organisations have apologised. The woman ate three mouthfuls of the food in June 2024, a month before she died from frailty of old age, the ombudsman's report said. The meal came from a pack which was labelled "fresh take on dog food" and "for adult dogs and puppies", it added. Previously, in April 2024, the council opened a safeguarding inquiry following complaints from the woman's family. It eventually found concerns that Radis staff had logged visits that did not happen, fed the woman stale and inedible food and left her wet or in darkness overnight. The woman's Do Not Attempt Resuscitation document was also found scrunched up in a cupboard, the report added. 'Shocking case' The inquiry took six months to complete, when it should have taken no more than 28 days. The council relied on Radis' internal investigation and did not exercise proper scrutiny, even though the company was already subject to a separate wider inquiry into its performance, the report said. It warned: "Councils cannot outsource their safeguarding duty." Ombudsman Amerdeep Clarke said: "This is a truly shocking case. "A vulnerable woman's care deteriorated over many months while a statutory inquiry drifted without proper oversight." Portsmouth City Council said it had refunded the care fees and paid the family an extra £1,000. It said it had ended the Radis contract early and had improved its monitoring of care providers together with its response to concerns. However, Radis Community Care said it "voluntarily withdrew" from providing services in Portsmouth at the end of 2025. It said it had improved its services and procedures and was no longer employing the care worker involved. In a statement, it added: "The fact that dog food was mistakenly provided was wholly unacceptable." Get in touch Your Voice Contact form Contact form Related topics Hampshire & Isle of Wight Portsmouth Outsourcing Home care Social care Elderly people See also 'Inadequate' care service put in special measures Published 16 May 2025 Thousands risk poor home care because of low fees Published 16 November 2023 Related internet links Local Government & Social Care Ombudsman Portsmouth City Council From other local news sites Council leaves door open for possible disposable BBQ and balloon restrictions External Isle of Wight County Press Vehicles stopped in Southampton in operation targeting fly-tipping External Southern Daily Echo Pompey fan walking from Cornwall to Fratton Park on 'special' journey External Portsmouth Today Popular paddling pool forced to close for second time during summer holidays External Basingstoke Gazette Trains through New Forest to be disrupted for months after fire damage External Southern Daily Echo Sold-out childhood-themed concert enchants audience and helps young carers External Andover Advertiser Information about BBC links to other news sites The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia 0:50 Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea. 00:00:50, play video Swimmer to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea 1:01 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller. 00:01:01, play video 'Human safari' drone targets Ukrainian vegetable seller 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:49 Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales. 00:00:49, play video Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales 0:59 The city closing down streets so children can play. 00:00:59, play video The city closing down streets so children can play 1:23 The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII. 00:01:23, play video The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII 1:30 What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK. 00:01:30, play video What it's like wearing the niqab in the UK 0:37 Crispy butter beans with whipped feta. 00:00:37, play video Crispy butter beans with whipped feta 0:57 Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites. 00:00:57, play video Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport Top stories Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate Published 1 hour ago Infantino remains Fifa president after executive meeting Published 19 minutes ago Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London Published 5 hours ago More to explore The cost of being single – and how friends are teaming up to beat it From flip flops to fisherman's sandals: How to look after your feet this summer 'My grandmother subjected my baby to female genital mutilation behind my back' 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' Kate Nash on Irish history, heritage and covering Sinéad O'Connor There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media 'This year has been the worst for my heat anxiety' Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Love shouldn't feel like fear How hydrated do you really need to be? Melvin Odoom on the MiniDiscs he can't throw away The origin story of the first Comic Con Most read 1 University of Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 2 Woman arrested after four stabbed in central London 3 See the Sun like never before with most detailed images yet 4 El-Sayed's victory sends tremors through Democratic Party 5 Family 'devastated' by death of girl, 9, as man charged with murder 6 Iran says it has agreed Strait of Hormuz shipping route with Oman 7 Student loan repayment rates an 'unsustainable burden', chancellor told 8 Apology after carer fed dog food to elderly woman by mistake 9 Ex neo-Nazi activist withdraws as Tory election candidate 10 Drone carrying explosives found at German airport, police say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.