Wayfair (W) earnings Q2 2026 Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Retail Wayfair stock jumps 30% as retailer posts strongest U.S. growth since 2020 Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 7:03 AM EDT Updated 2 Hours Ago Gabrielle Fonrouge @in/gabrielle-fonrouge @fonrougegab WATCH LIVE Key Points Wayfair saw its strongest U.S. growth since the pandemic during its second quarter. The growth helped Wayfair's profitability, as free cash flow also reached its highest level since 2020. Finance chief Kate Gulliver told CNBC that Wayfair is taking market share from traditional, brick-and-mortar retailers. In this article W Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT The first Wayfair brick-and-mortar store in Wilmette, Illinois, prepares to open, May 2, 2024. Scott Olson | Getty Images Wayfair on Tuesday said it saw its strongest growth in the U.S. and best free cash flow since the pandemic during its second quarter, as the online furniture company continues to take market share from legacy brick-and-mortar retailers. In the three months ended June 30, sales in Wayfair's largest market grew 8.7% to $3.1 billion – the most the region has grown since 2020. That year, the overall home goods industry surged and Wayfair's business grew 55%. The second-quarter sales bump helped Wayfair's profitability, as free cash flow reached $301 million during the quarter, also the strongest the company has seen since 2020. During its call with analysts, Wayfair said it expects its sales momentum to continue during the current quarter with "high single-digit" percentage revenue growth. Analysts had been looking for 5% sales growth, according to LSEG. It expects gross margin to be between 29.5% and 30.5%. Wayfair's stock closed about 30% higher on Tuesday. In an interview with CNBC, Wayfair's finance chief, Kate Gulliver, said the company is growing by taking market share, primarily from traditional brick-and-mortar competitors, as the housing market remains "stalled." It's also winning over more luxury consumers through its high-end brand Perigold, CEO Niraj Shah said in a news release. "We saw noteworthy outperformance from our specialty retail brands, which grew by nearly 20% in the second quarter, and Perigold, which grew by more than 35%," said Shah. "We are excited to see ramping growth in the Wayfair business and complementing that with outsized growth from our specialty and luxury brands, all building to why we expect to see even further acceleration as our numerous initiatives play out." Here's how Wayfair performed during the quarter compared with what Wall Street was anticipating, based on a survey of analysts by LSEG: Earnings per share: 95 cents adjusted vs. 89 cents expected Revenue: $3.52 billion vs. $3.47 billion expected Wayfair reported a loss of $1 million, or 1 cent per share, compared with a gain of $15 million, or 11 cents per share, a year earlier. Adjusting for nonrecurring charges like equity based compensation, Wayfair saw earnings of 95 cents per share. Revenue rose 7.5% to $3.52 billion. The home goods retailer beat Wall Street's expectations on the top and bottom lines and also exceeded estimates for adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, active customers and orders delivered. During the quarter, Wayfair's adjusted EBITDA reached $242 million, exceeding expectations of $230 million, according to StreetAccount. The 10.6 million orders it delivered beat estimates of 10.3 million, while active customers of 21.7 million topped expectations of 21.5 million, according to StreetAccount. However, average order value came in at $332, below expectations of $337.57, according to StreetAccount. Wayfair, a pandemic darling, has been working to get back to consistent growth and improve its profitability at a time when the overall home goods market remains under pressure due to tariffs , a sluggish housing market and a cash-strapped consumer. In recent quarters, it's found growth largely by winning over more shoppers, many of whom are looking for a better value as costs remain high, said Gulliver. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by