AstraZeneca stock falls as investors balk at reported Bristol Myers tie-up Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Markets AstraZeneca slides after reports of Bristol Myers merger talks leave analysts 'perplexed' Published Mon, Aug 3 2026 3:17 AM EDT Updated Mon, Aug 3 2026 7:35 AM EDT Elsa Ohlen WATCH LIVE Key Points AstraZeneca is reportedly in talks with U.S. peer Bristol Myers Squibb over a megadeal. If completed, a combined company could be valued at roughly roughly $400 billion. Analysts were puzzled by both the news itself, as well as the timing of it. In this article .FTSE AZN-GB BMY Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT AstraZeneca shares dropped as much as 7% on Monday after reports that the company had discussed a potential mega-merger with Bristol Myers Squibb , a deal that analysts said would be a surprising strategic move for one of the pharmaceutical industry's strongest growth stories. If completed, a deal could value the companies at roughly $400 billion, and rank among the largest pharmaceutical tie-ups ever. Neither company confirmed the report. AstraZeneca declined to comment, while Bristol Myers Squibb did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment outside normal U.S. business hours. While details of the talks remain scarce and sources told the FT that a deal may never materialize, analysts questioned why AstraZeneca — whose market value has surged under CEO Pascal Soriot on the back of a strong drug pipeline — would pursue such a transaction. AstraZeneca's London-listed shares were last seen trading 4.7% lower, weighing on the U.K.'s blue-chip index FTSE 100 , which was largely flat. Shares of Bristol Myers rose 6% in U.S. premarket trading. Coming into Monday trading, AstraZeneca had a market cap of $264 billion. That number has risen steadily over the past decade and since CEO Pascal Soriot took the reins in 2012 as the company has developed a solid pipeline of new drugs. It is targeting $80 billion in sales by 2030, up from $58.7 billion last year. Bristol Myers' market cap is roughly $133 billion, and the company is facing loss of exclusivity for multiple drugs. It's expected to see declining growth from next year as patents expire and top-selling drugs like its blood thinner Eliquis and cancer medicine Opdivo will start to face generic competition. Analysts were puzzled by both the news itself, as well as the timing of it. "Given the strength of AZ's growth and innovation profile, we are a bit perplexed," Jefferies analysts wrote Monday morning. "Of course financial accretion can look good and maybe more cash generation would allow for more R&D. But if there is one company that doesn't need financial engineering, it's AZ." It also comes as Bristol Myers has major trial readouts looming for its newer blood thinner medication milvexian and the expansion of the label for its schizophrenia drug Cobenfy, making pipeline synergies between the two companies uncertain, noted RBC Capital Markets analysts. The U.S. market One rationale for the reported deal talks could be AstraZeneca's strategic desire to move closer to the key U.S. market after the company completed a direct listing on the New York Stock Exchange earlier this year, replacing its earlier ADR program. AstraZeneca's U.S. sales accounted for 42% of total sales in the first half of 2026, and it explicitly targets the U.S. market to ensure its growth targets. Meanwhile, Princeton, New Jersey-based Bristol Myers Squibb sourced 69% of revenues from the U.S. market in the last quarter. watch now VIDEO 8:56 08:56 AstraZeneca CFO: Very confident we will hit $80 billion revenue target Squawk Box Europe The focus will likely be on the potential to establish an even bigger oncology powerhouse, with AstraZeneca's and Bristol Myers' combined portfolio of cancer drugs likely being the broadest in the industry, potentially attracting antitrust scrutiny, Jefferies said. While the companies overlap in oncology, cardiovascular disease and immunology, their pipelines are largely complementary, with AstraZeneca stronger in solid tumors and Bristol Myers Squibb more focused on blood cancers and cell therapies. Citi analysts said that if the merger talks report were true, it would be a "surprise" given AstraZeneca's "best-in-class pipeline." AstraZeneca did, however, report a rare setback when a late-stage clinical trial for a heart disease drug failed to meet its target earlier this month. It raised some questions around management's credibility, given the confidence they had communicated coming into the results. Even so, most analysts still considered the $80 billion sales target achievable by the end of the decade. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by