Ford 'Fathom' electric pickup truck will start at $28,000 Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Autos Ford's new 'Fathom' electric pickup truck will start at $28,000 Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 9:29 AM EDT Updated Thu, Aug 6 2026 12:09 PM EDT Michele Luhn @MicheleTheodore WATCH LIVE Key Points Ford said its new electric midsize pickup truck will start at $28,350 and be called the "Fathom." It's the first vehicle to be built using Ford's "Universal Electric Vehicle," or UEV, platform. Ford's push with the UEV platform comes despite a massive slowdown in EV adoption. In this article F Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT The logo of car manufacturer Ford is pictured in Inwood, New York, on Feb. 5, 2024. Charly Triballeau | AFP | Getty Images Ford Motor announced Thursday that its new midsize electric truck will have a starting price of $28,350 and be called the "Fathom," as the automaker looks to offer an affordable option in the pricey EV truck market . Destination and delivery charges of $1,595 will bring the price to $29,945, coming in at the $30,000 mark the automaker had long promised in touting its upcoming electric vehicles. Ford said preorders for the five-passenger truck will begin in early 2027. Customer deliveries are expected to begin later in 2027. The company has yet to reveal what the new truck will look like. The Fathom is the first vehicle to be built on Ford's new "Universal Electric Vehicle," or UEV, platform, which the company has said is key to bring its Model e business unit from billions of dollars in annual losses to breakeven by 2029. "We are confident that we have the best cost platform and are focused on the right market," a Ford spokesperson said in an email. "We believe the UEV platform will be a strategic advantage -- and we have the best chance to make it work." Ford has said the goal for the UEV platform is for each vehicle built on the system to be profitable within a year of launching and cost-competitive with global EV leaders from China and Tesla . Ford has had a secret unit working on the platform to make the vehicles comparable in price to gas-powered models through new technologies and efficiencies. Ford's push with the UEV platform comes despite a massive slowdown in EV adoption and the elimination of U.S. consumer incentives to buy EVs. The company last year reported $19.5 billion in restructuring charges related to its electric vehicles. The Ford Fathom will be built using the company's new assembly tree manufacturing process at its Louisville Assembly Plant in Kentucky. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by