Former X Factor contestant Gabrielle Carrington denies murder - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions London Former X Factor finalist denies murder and GBH Image source, BBC/Julia Quenzler Image caption, Carrington appeared in court from prison via video link By Levi Jouavel Reporting from Old Bailey Published 3 August 2026 A former X Factor finalist has denied murdering a social media influencer by running her over with a car in central London. Gabrielle Carrington of Manchester, allegedly struck Klaudia Zakrzewska outside Inca nightclub in Argyll Street, Soho, at 04:30 BST on 19 April. The 29-year-old appeared at the Old Bailey by video link from Bronzefield prison to deny the charge. She had been initially charged with attempted murder but that was changed to murder after Zakrzewska died from her injuries six days later. Carrington, who was not represented in court by a barrister, also denied a second charge of causing grievous bodily harm with intent to security guard Anoush Chyche. The defendant was not asked to enter a plea to a third charge of driving with excess alcohol. Family members of the victims shook their heads as the accused read out her pleas. Judge Sarah Whitehouse KC confirmed the trial would be held at the same court from 5 January. Carrington appeared emotional on the video link, wiping tears from her face throughout the hearing and was placed into custody afterwards. Image source, RIELLEUK / Instagram Image caption, Gabrielle Carrington denies murder and a second charge of causing grievous bodily harm with intent Carrington allegedly arrived in Argyll Street in her car and appeared to have a row with a male as she got out of the vehicle. The altercation escalated as more people became involved, prompting security to intervene. She allegedly got back into the car and moved off, sharply mounting the pavement, striking Zakrzewska. The vehicle went on to strike Chyche, who was on the pavement, it is claimed. As it reversed, Zakrzewska could be seen under the vehicle lying prone on the ground. Zakrzewska died later in hospital and Chyche, in his 50s, suffered "life-changing injuries". Image source, klaudiaglam Image caption, Klaudia Zakrzewska had more than 270,000 followers on Instagram The defendant, who has more than 365,000 followers on Instagram under the handle RIELLEUK, made it to the X Factor live finals in 2013 as one of the three members of Miss Dynamix. She was described in court as a social media influencer who made regular trips to the United Arab Emirates. Zakrzewska, who was in her 30s, was a TikTok and Instagram influencer who went by the name Klaudiaglam. Additional reporting by PA Media Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook , external , X , external and Instagram , external . Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk , external Related topics London Soho X Factor Related internet links HM Courts & Tribunals Service From other local news sites Influencer sobs in court as he denies robbing man of designer watch External London Evening Standard Warning of major disruption over Bank Holiday weekend due to strikes External London Evening Standard Man in 30s left fighting for life in hospital after serious assault in Stratford External Newham Recorder Five of the biggest planning proposals made across Havering in 2026 so far External Romford Recorder The Art Deco cinema that became an iconic venue played by Arctic Monkeys and Rihanna External Wimbledon Guardian Why small monthly donations make a big difference to St Luke’s Hospice External Kilburn Times Information about BBC links to other news sites The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:34 Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents. 00:00:34, play video Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents 1:05 What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident. 00:01:05, play video What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident 0:29 How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 00:00:29, play video How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 1:27 Are older and younger generations in conflict? 00:01:27, play video Are older and younger generations in conflict? 1:18 Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 00:01:18, play video Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 0:48 Model's photos used to catfish women. 00:00:48, play video Model's photos used to catfish women 1:29 The inventor who refused to take no for an answer. 00:01:29, play video The inventor who refused to take no for an answer 1:07 How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 00:01:07, play video How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 1:01 E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths. 00:01:01, play video E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths 1:07 NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England. 00:01:07, play video NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England 0:52 Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion. 00:00:52, play video Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion 0:59 Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation. 00:00:59, play video Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation 0:35 Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend. 00:00:35, play video Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend 1:25 Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings. 00:01:25, play video Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings 0:55 Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 00:00:55, play video Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 0:48 Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances. 00:00:48, play video Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances 1:16 GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview. 00:01:16, play video GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview 1:07 What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 00:01:07, play video What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 0:58 '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 00:00:58, play video '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 0:29 Where does salmonella get its name? 00:00:29, play video Where does salmonella get its name? Top stories Live . Rescue efforts enter fifth day on Nepal-Tibet border with more than 2,400 missing after flash flood 1277 viewing 1.3k viewing At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot Published 3 hours ago Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor Published 7 hours ago More to explore Dolly Parton's dad couldn't read - it inspired her to send books to millions of children Sweetcorn ice creams and pastries: The latest 'swavoury' trend taking over your feed How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works We helped create UK emergency alert system - but question how government is using it Hypermobility - the little-known 'bendy disease' that causes pain and fatigue Strong winds and thunderstorms kick off the bank holiday weekend 'I thought diet clubs weren't for men' Embroidery on display as town celebrates conqueror Royal Watch: Get the latest royal stories and analysis with Sean Coughlan’s weekly newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Low-key noughties sitcom starring Robert Webb and Paula Wilcox Keith Richards recalls how he wrote the iconic 'Satisfaction' An unlikely gang set out to catch a killer who shattered rural peace Did Emily ruin Paris? Most read 1 Rescue to continue overnight for 'in distress' vessel carrying five in the Channel 2 Sarah Ferguson expected back in the UK 'shortly', source says 3 Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor 4 I've been to Gamescom six times - here's what excited me this year 5 'Healey eyes banks and oil tax' and 'X Factor comeback' 6 Norway's new king remembers 'my dear father' in first speech 7 How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works 8 They fell in love - then had to check they weren't brother and sister 9 Man dies after train hits van on crossing 10 At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.