Witness video of Madison police killing raises questions of why lethal force was used IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Meet the Press U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Meet the Press U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Witness video of Madison police killing raises questions of why lethal force was used July 24, 2026 02:46 Still Serving: Inside the Most Bombed McDonald’s in The World 06:51 Now Playing Witness video of Madison police killing raises questions of why lethal force was used 02:46 UP NEXT Video investigation: Medics under fire in Lebanon 05:44 The Families of Dilley ICE Detention: 'Mama, I Don't Want to Live' 11:35 How the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner chaos unfolded 03:48 LA’s ‘Most Tasteful’ Burglar: The Case of a Mid-Century Modern Furniture Thief 25:41 Parents v. The Platforms: the families who fought big tech and won 11:55 Videos show Iran's drone army puncturing U.S. and allied defenses 03:48 Video analysis contradicts government's account 03:00 Video Investigation: How the Israeli military responds to allegations of abuses in Gaza 10:06 Videos contradict Trump's claim Minn. driver 'viciously ran over' officer in fatal ICE shooting 02:46 Filmed in Gaza: Two NBC News journalists on what it is like to cover the Israel-Hamas war from inside Gaza 51:12 Giving birth while in custody: The hidden struggles of pregnant women in U.S. jails 17:48 The Gray Wave: Rising Homelessness for American Seniors 09:59 This Hit Home: Reporting on the Texas Hill Country Floods 17:03 Hidden Invasion: Inside Rwanda's covert war in eastern Congo 09:18 These moms use blogs to fight back against church abuse 04:46 The Children’s Pastor: The 40-year mission to stop a preacher accused of raping children 42:24 From Vietnam: 50 years after the war, Viet refugees share their family history 06:20 From Vietnam: Refugee parents recount their family history 12:31 Witness video of Madison police killing raises questions of why lethal force was used 02:46 Copied Local authorities said that the matter is being investigated and that the officers involved have been placed on administrative leave. July 24, 2026 Read More Get more news on Still Serving: Inside the Most Bombed McDonald’s in The World 06:51 Now Playing Witness video of Madison police killing raises questions of why lethal force was used 02:46 UP NEXT Video investigation: Medics under fire in Lebanon 05:44 The Families of Dilley ICE Detention: 'Mama, I Don't Want to Live' 11:35 How the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner chaos unfolded 03:48 LA’s ‘Most Tasteful’ Burglar: The Case of a Mid-Century Modern Furniture Thief 25:41 Get more news on Best of NBC News Play All Video shows aftermath of Russian drone attack in Kyiv Why Lindsay Clancy never took the stand during her trial National Park Service conducts evacuations at Grand Canyon Sen. Ted Cruz comments on possible 2028 presidential run Meet the Press Aug. 30 — Sen. Ted Cruz and Rep. Jim Clyburn At least 7 dead after ferry carrying nearly 270 capsizes off northern Cyprus Play All About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC