Raleigh's parent company starts insolvency proceedings - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions Nottingham Raleigh owner starts insolvency proceedings Image source, PA Media Image caption, Raleigh created the famous Chopper and was once the biggest bike maker in the world By Liam Barnes East Midlands Published 6 August 2026, 08:00 BST Updated 1 hour ago The company that owns iconic Nottingham bike manufacturer Raleigh has begun insolvency proceedings. Accell, based in the Netherlands, bought Raleigh for $100m in 2012 but said on Wednesday it had "exhausted all the available options" and was "no longer able to meet its financial obligations". It comes after a difficult period for Raleigh, which saw redundancies in 2024 and losses of £30m in accounts released the following year. Jonas Nilsson, chief executive of Accell, said it was "a deeply sad and frustrating situation". Image source, PA Media Image caption, The Raleigh Chopper became famous for its extended handlebars Raleigh was founded in Nottingham in 1887 and at one stage was the biggest bicycle maker in the world, employing about 8,000 people at its peak. It stopped making bikes in the city decades ago, and in 2024 it vacated its headquarters on Church Street in Eastwood to move to new premises less than a mile away. Announcing plans to initiate insolvency proceedings, Nilsson said Accell had worked "to restructure [its] operations and finances". "Every realistic option for the future of the business has been tirelessly explored, and none have resulted in a solution to continue the group in its current form," he said. "Our immediate focus is to support an orderly process, provide clarity wherever possible, and work with the relevant court-appointed administrators to preserve viable activities and employment where circumstances allow." Image source, Raleigh Image caption, Raleigh moved to its new headquarters in Nottinghamshire in 2024 Get in touch Tell us which stories we should cover in Nottingham Contact form Contact form Listen to BBC Radio Nottingham on Sounds and follow BBC Nottingham on Facebook , external , on X , external , or on Instagram , external . Send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk , external or via WhatsApp , external on 0808 100 2210. Related topics Eastwood Nottingham More on this story How closed building reflects city's 'social changes' Published 2 March 2025 Bike manufacturer Raleigh records losses of £30m Published 9 January 2025 Bike manufacturer Raleigh opens new headquarters Published 13 August 2024 Related internet links Accell Group From other local news sites Blaze destroys home in Retford cul-de-sac External Worksop Guardian Nottinghamshire weather for Wednesday 5 August External West Bridgford Wire Safety officers deployed across Nottingham’s buses and trams External West Bridgford Wire Railway boss apologises for travel disruption and substandard performance External Newark Advertiser Worksop man hurled ex-partner onto stairs after blaming her for poorly dog External Worksop Guardian Drunken chef threw 'numerous' punches in Mansfield Marketplace External Mansfield Chad Information about BBC links to other news sites The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya 1:14 Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks. 00:01:14, play video Kyiv strikes after Ukraine's 'Russian Amazon' attacks 0:45 Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices. 00:00:45, play video Oil giants make record profits as Iran war pushes up prices 0:30 Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia. 00:00:30, play video Warehouse on fire after drone attack in Russia 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:49 Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales. 00:00:49, play video Moment passenger train crashes into trailer carrying straw bales 0:59 The city closing down streets so children can play. 00:00:59, play video The city closing down streets so children can play 1:23 The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII. 00:01:23, play video The Mexican song that captivated lovers during WWII 0:37 Crispy butter beans with whipped feta. 00:00:37, play video Crispy butter beans with whipped feta 0:57 Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites. 00:00:57, play video Days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens Top stories Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at Army teen college Published 5 hours ago Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns Published 3 hours ago Live . Fifa latest: Infantino remains president after tumultuous period 3798 viewing 3.8k viewing More to explore Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear in the office? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Rihanna is 'in the studio', says partner A$AP Rocky Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Families' anger at jailed funeral boss's apology letter Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Love shouldn't feel like fear How hydrated do you really need to be? Melvin Odoom on the MiniDiscs he can't throw away The origin story of the first Comic Con Most read 1 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 2 Meredith Kercher's sister criticises Amanda Knox comedy show 3 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at Army teen college 4 Why phones on loudspeaker may become just another noise 5 Meta becomes latest firm to say its AI hacked another company 6 Families' anger at jailed funeral boss's apology letter 7 Car washes and vape shops can still sponsor skilled foreign workers despite visa changes 8 Iran says deal with Oman on Strait of Hormuz is in final stages 9 The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon 10 Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear in the office? BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.