10-year-old rescued from rip current by teen lifeguard says he thought he was going to die - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Spokane Wildfires World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds CBS Mornings | Eye Opener Politics Health CBS Mornings YouTube Watch CBS News CBS Mornings 10-year-old rescued from rip current by teen lifeguard says he thought he was going to die By Kelsie Hoffman Updated on: August 4, 2026 / 12:57 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google A 10-year-old boy who was saved from a rip current off the coast of Santa Cruz, California, last month said he thought he was going to die before a 16-year-old lifeguard rescued him . "I'm super thankful for him saving my life," Nathaniel Rai said about the teen lifeguard , Ryder Williams. Nathaniel told "CBS Mornings" that "the waves were really big" that day at the beach so he stayed on the shore. But at one point he tripped and got pulled into the water. "It was really quick and it felt scary because I didn't know if I was going to make it," he recalled. Nathaniel's father, Sumit Rai, said his son was "a second or two away from dying" and he's "forever grateful" for Williams, who was the first person to respond. "Ryder knew that if he lets go, Nathaniel is going to drown," Sumit Rai said. At that point, he said, Nathaniel was unconscious and not breathing. Ryder Williams, 16, helps to rescue 10-year-old Nathaniel Rai from a rip current off the coast of Santa Cruz, California, last month. Scott Vander Dussen "He just did everything he was supposed to do to save his (Nathaniel's) life and put himself at risk to do so," he said. Sumit Rai also expressed gratitude for the other lifeguard who assisted and the good Samaritans who jumped in to help save his son. "I appreciate each and every one of them, incredibly so, because, you know, it took that effort to bring him out and keep him alive. I'm just so grateful to have my son with me. I can't imagine what life would look like had Ryder not been there," he said. In a statement last week , Ryder Williams said he too was grateful. "I'm grateful to have had the opportunity to return the child to his family safely. This is my job and I love what I do. I'm thankful to my fellow lifeguards who perform rescues just like this every day," he said. Jake Shannon contributed to this report. More from CBS News What's behind the $4B funding cut for California's high-speed rail? Gaza holds mass funeral for extended family recovered from wartime rubble How much interest will a $50,000 1-year CD earn if opened this August? She went to "hell and back" for a diagnosis. Then her sister showed symptoms. Go deeper with The Free Press Thirty Years Late, Justice Comes Knocking on Raúl Castro’s Door My Grandfather, the Secret War Hero In: California Lifeguard © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Boy rescued from rip current speaks out Boy saved in rip current rescue speaks out: "I thought I was going to ... die" 05:22 Boy saved in rip current rescue speaks out: "I thought I was going to ... die" (05:22) What's behind the $4B funding cut for California's high-speed rail? Gaza holds mass funeral for extended family recovered from wartime rubble How much interest will a $50,000 1-year CD earn if opened this August? Thirty Years Late, Justice Comes Knocking on Raúl Castro’s Door Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest MLB Trade Deadline Predictions NFL Overrated QBs Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue