When is it too hot to walk your dog, and how to keep pets cool - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat UK England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Isle of Man Guernsey Jersey Local News What are the signs of heatstroke in dogs? Image source, Getty Images By Jennifer Clarke BBC News Published 12 August 2025 Updated 22 June 2026 It's not just humans who can feel uncomfortable during period of hot weather. How can you make sure your pets are cool and safe when temperatures rise? When is it too hot to walk your dog? Image source, Getty Images The RSPCA says that exercise is the most frequent trigger of heatstroke for dogs and advises adjusting your routine in period of hot weather , external . It says there is no "safe" temperature for walks, as it depends on your dog's breed, age, health and temperament. The charity also recommends the pavement test: if you can't comfortably hold your hand on the ground for five seconds, it's too hot for your dog's paws , external . If you do walk your dog, go out in the early morning or late evening, look for shaded areas and walk on grass where possible. The charity says these signs could mean your dog is suffering in the heat: limping or refusing to walk licking or chewing at their feet their foot pads are darker in colour or damaged they have visible blisters or redness You should also avoid running or cycling with your dog when it is hot. If your dog is getting less exercise than usual, the RSPCA suggests keeping them engaged at home with puzzle toys or training games. How dog walks can become deadly when the heat rises Published 29 June 2025 What are the signs of heatstroke in dogs? Some dogs are more at risk of heatstroke than others , external . This includes those with underlying health conditions or thick coats which can trap heat. Puppies or older dogs may also struggle to regulate their temperature. Dogs pant to keep themselves cool, but the shorter snouts of certain flat-faced breeds like bulldogs and pugs make this difficult. This means they are at particular risk from overheating. According to the PDSA, symptoms of heatstroke include , external : excessive panting drooling or foaming confusion shaking weakness and collapse vomiting or diarrhoea seizures If you see these signs, first try to cool your dog down as quickly as possible. Move them to a shaded area and slowly pour any available water that's cooler than the dog's temperature over their body, avoiding their head in case they are struggling to breathe. Do not cover them in damp or wet towels as this can trap heat. The faster you can bring their temperature down, the lower the risk of serious injury. Once your pet has started to cool down, contact your vet for guidance and possible further treatment. How can you keep dogs and other pets cool? Image source, Getty Images The RSPCA says it is essential that animals have access to shaded spaces inside and outside , external . Provide plenty of clean water - you can add ice cubes to their water bowl. Pets may also enjoy frozen edible snacks. Put wet or damp towels underneath their body - but don't place them directly on top. Several pet cooling mats and jackets are available, but make sure you follow the instructions. Products that need to be kept constantly wet can actually make your pet hotter if they dry out. Some animals may enjoy playing with frozen toys, or cooling off in a paddling pool – although you should always supervise pets around water. Keeping dogs and other furry animals like cats well-groomed prevents the build-up of matted fur, which can make it harder for them to stay cool. Make sure any indoor animal cages or fish tanks are not in direct sunlight. Never leave a pet in a locked car, caravan or other vehicle for any length of time, as temperatures can rise quickly to dangerous levels - which can be fatal. Similarly, don't leave animals shut inside conservatories, sheds or greenhouses. You may also want to leave out extra water in your garden for birds, foxes and other wildlife creatures. Hay fever: Did you know your pets can suffer too? Published 1 May Do pets need sunscreen? Dogs and cats can get sunburnt - especially if they are light-coloured or have thin patches of fur. Ears, noses, eyelids and bellies are also vulnerable. Sunburn can be painful for pets, and in extreme cases can lead to skin cancer. Some active ingredients in human sun cream are toxic to pets so vets recommend using a pet-safe waterproof sunscreen, with an SPF rating of 30 or higher. Some companies sell sunscreen with a bitter taste to stop animals licking it off. The PDSA suggests you apply sunscreen to a small area of skin first , external , and leave it for 24 hours to ensure the animal does not react. Once you know the sunscreen is safe, you can gently apply a thin layer of sunscreen on the exposed white and light patches of skin, plus their nose and ears. The PDSA warns pet owners to look out for the following symptoms of sunburn: blisters crusting itching redness What should you look for when choosing sunscreen? Published 22 June What are UV levels and how can you protect yourself? Published 22 June Six ways to keep your home and yourself cool in hot weather Published 22 June How should you look after your dogs on the beach? Image source, Getty Images The Dogs Trust advises owners to first check whether the beach they want to visit allows dogs. If it does, the charity recommends taking plenty of fresh water , external and making sure your dog doesn't drink sea water. Check the temperature of the sand and, if there's no natural shade, try to create some with a beach umbrella, sun tent or windbreak. If your dog likes to go in the sea, check the tide times and make sure you understand any swimming hazards. Keep your dog on a lead when you are near fast-flowing water or cliff edges. When you leave the beach rinse any sand and seawater off their coat and paws with tap water to stop it causing any irritation. Heatwaves: The New Normal? How hot is too hot? From heat labs to firefighting helicopter pilots and wineries, we look at how extreme heat impacts people and environments in the UK. Watch on iPlayer Related topics UK heatwaves Dogs Pets Cats The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:34 Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents. 00:00:34, play video Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents 1:05 What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident. 00:01:05, play video What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident 0:29 How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 00:00:29, play video How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 1:27 Are older and younger generations in conflict? 00:01:27, play video Are older and younger generations in conflict? 1:18 Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 00:01:18, play video Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 0:48 Model's photos used to catfish women. 00:00:48, play video Model's photos used to catfish women 1:29 The inventor who refused to take no for an answer. 00:01:29, play video The inventor who refused to take no for an answer 1:07 How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 00:01:07, play video How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 1:01 E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths. 00:01:01, play video E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths 1:07 NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England. 00:01:07, play video NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England 0:52 Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion. 00:00:52, play video Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion 0:59 Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation. 00:00:59, play video Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation 0:35 Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend. 00:00:35, play video Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend 1:25 Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings. 00:01:25, play video Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings 0:55 Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 00:00:55, play video Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 0:48 Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances. 00:00:48, play video Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances 1:16 GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview. 00:01:16, play video GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview 1:07 What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 00:01:07, play video What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 0:58 '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 00:00:58, play video '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 0:29 Where does salmonella get its name? 00:00:29, play video Where does salmonella get its name? Top stories Live . Rescue efforts enter fifth day on Nepal-Tibet border with more than 2,400 missing after flash flood 1277 viewing 1.3k viewing At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot Published 3 hours ago Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor Published 7 hours ago More to explore Dolly Parton's dad couldn't read - it inspired her to send books to millions of children Sweetcorn ice creams and pastries: The latest 'swavoury' trend taking over your feed How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works We helped create UK emergency alert system - but question how government is using it Hypermobility - the little-known 'bendy disease' that causes pain and fatigue Strong winds and thunderstorms kick off the bank holiday weekend 'I thought diet clubs weren't for men' Embroidery on display as town celebrates conqueror Royal Watch: Get the latest royal stories and analysis with Sean Coughlan’s weekly newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Low-key noughties sitcom starring Robert Webb and Paula Wilcox Keith Richards recalls how he wrote the iconic 'Satisfaction' An unlikely gang set out to catch a killer who shattered rural peace Did Emily ruin Paris? Most read 1 Rescue to continue overnight for 'in distress' vessel carrying five in the Channel 2 Sarah Ferguson expected back in the UK 'shortly', source says 3 Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor 4 I've been to Gamescom six times - here's what excited me this year 5 'Healey eyes banks and oil tax' and 'X Factor comeback' 6 Norway's new king remembers 'my dear father' in first speech 7 How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works 8 They fell in love - then had to check they weren't brother and sister 9 Man dies after train hits van on crossing 10 At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.