Widdecombe murder police reopen inquiry into alleged attempt to firebomb Farage’s home | UK news | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland The former Conservative minister Ann Widdecombe was found dead at her home in Devon on 9 July. Photograph: Murdo Macleod/The Guardian View image in fullscreen The former Conservative minister Ann Widdecombe was found dead at her home in Devon on 9 July. Photograph: Murdo Macleod/The Guardian UK news Widdecombe murder police reopen inquiry into alleged attempt to firebomb Farage’s home Watchdog examines handling of an incident last year that was treated as an attempted burglary Nadeem Badshah Sat 8 Aug 2026 04.59 EDT First published on Fri 7 Aug 2026 18.58 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Counter-terrorism police investigating the death of Ann Widdecombe have reopened an inquiry into an incident last year, in which Nigel Farage’s home was allegedly firebombed. During the incident in April 2025, a lit incendiary device was pushed through the Reform UK leader’s letterbox, according to reports. Police did not identify any suspects during their investigation of the incident at the time, which was treated as an attempted burglary, and so the investigation was closed, pending any new lines of inquiry. Since the case was reopened, CTP London said it had identified a line of inquiry “which may have been relevant” but was “not identified and pursued by [counter-terrorism police] at the time”. The police watchdog said it was now investigating the conduct of a CTP London staff member over allegations that they “failed to identify and pursue a line of inquiry”. Vicki Evans, senior national coordinator for counter-terrorism policing, said: “As part of the ongoing investigation led by counter-terrorism policing south-east into the murder of Ann Widdecombe, officers have reopened an investigation into an incident reported to police last year.” CTP London made a “mandatory conduct referral” to the Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC) on Friday. A spokesperson for the IOPC said: “We can confirm that the IOPC has decided to independently investigate the conduct of a counter-terrorism policing London staff member following a referral received earlier today. “The conduct relates to an allegation the individual failed to identify and pursue a line of inquiry relating to an attempted burglary reported in April 2025. Counter-terrorism policing London has been notified of our decision, and no further information is available at this early stage.” Widdecombe, 78, a Reform UK spokesperson and former Conservative minister, was found dead on 9 July at her home in Haytor on Dartmoor, Devon, having sustained serious injuries. Last month, a 28-year-old man was charged with the former MP’s murder. Joshua Kerry, from Rotherham in South Yorkshire, was arrested on suspicion of murder on 11 July. He was also arrested on suspicion of the commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism but has not been charged with this offence. Devon and Cornwall police initially arrested a 26-year-old man from Newton Abbot in Devon, but later released him and said he was no longer part of the investigation. Widdecombe served as Conservative MP for Maidstone, Kent, for 23 years. She subsequently represented south-west England as a member of the European parliament for the Brexit party and in 2023 joined Reform UK . Explore more on these topics UK news news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)