Kosovo finds third wartime mass grave site as officials widen search | Conflict News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up News | Conflict Kosovo finds third wartime mass grave site as officials widen search Excavation work continues as officials believe that there could be people buried dating back to the 1998-99 Kosovo war. Listen (2 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google A Kosovo policeman guards the site where forensic teams have begun excavations of a mass grave near the village of Kalluder, July 29, 2026 [Florent Bajrami/AP] By AFP and Anadolu Published On 4 Aug 2026 4 Aug 2026 Authorities in Kosovo say they have identified a third potential mass grave site as investigations into suspected war crimes dating back to the 1998-99 war continue. After discovering remains at a second site on Monday, authorities on Tuesday said they were looking into starting a third dig. Recommended Stories list of 4 items list 1 of 4 How Volker Turk won new UN rights chief term despite US, Israel opposition list 2 of 4 Kosovo votes again amid political deadlock, seeking EU and NATO progress list 3 of 4 Deadly heatwave grips Italy and Balkans as wildfire fears grow list 4 of 4 Protesters in Serbia doubt Vucic resignation will bring change end of list So far, the remains of 11 people have been uncovered. “Due to the sensitive phase of the investigation, the Special Prosecutor’s Office is unable to provide further information at this time,” the prosecutor’s office said in a statement. The Kosovo war between ethnic Albanians seeking independence and Serbian armed forces left more than 10,000 people, mostly ethnic Albanians, dead and displaced more than one million others. According to Kosovan authorities, the remains of 1,600 people are still missing. Last week, excavation work began in the area of Zubin Potok, with the initial dig since expanding as officials believe that there could be as many as 23 people buried near surrounding villages. The remains that have so far been discovered have been sent for DNA testing and identification, but public prosecutors warn that the process could take months. Ahead of the discovery of a third site on Sunday, acting President Albulena Haxhiu said in a Facebook post that the discovery of the second mass grave was a “grave reminder” of crimes committed during the war. “Every discovered grave is a step toward the truth, but also evidence that the wounds of war remain open until the last missing person is found and those responsible are brought to justice,” she said. Advertisement In a separate post on X on the same day, Haxhiu claimed that Serbia was continuing to “conceal the truth about the missing, intimidate witnesses, and obstruct justice”. “International partners must condemn this conduct. RKS [Republic of Kosovo] will continue its search until the fate of every victim is uncovered,” she added. So far, Kosovo police have arrested three men from the local area on suspicion of war crimes. Acting Prime Minister Albin Kurti also said on Saturday that the discovered remains most likely belong to “23 Albanians who had been violently abducted [and] executed” in the spring of 1999. Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network