Perez Hilton ‘able to communicate’ after hospitalization following live stream | Perez Hilton | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters Perez Hilton speaks during Liberace's birthday celebration and charity benefit on 17 May 2023 in Las Vegas, Nevada. Photograph: Gabe Ginsberg/Getty Images for Admit VIP View image in fullscreen Perez Hilton speaks during Liberace's birthday celebration and charity benefit on 17 May 2023 in Las Vegas, Nevada. Photograph: Gabe Ginsberg/Getty Images for Admit VIP Perez Hilton Perez Hilton ‘able to communicate’ after hospitalization following live stream Family says celebrity blogger remains under medical care after viewers raised alarm over disturbing TikTok broadcast Marina Dunbar Thu 6 Aug 2026 11.44 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 12.06 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Perez Hilton is “able to communicate”, according to a new statement released by his family, one day after the celebrity blogger appeared to self-harm during a disturbing TikTok livestream that prompted his hospitalization. In a message posted to Hilton’s blog on Wednesday evening, his family thanked supporters for the outpouring of concern. “Our family wants to once again thank everyone who has reached out with prayers, kind messages, and support for Perez,” the statement reads. “Your compassionate humanity during this profoundly heartbreaking time has meant more than words can express.” The family said the ordeal has been “incredibly difficult and emotional”, but added that they “remain hopeful” about Hilton’s condition. Hours before that update, Hilton’s team and family confirmed in a separate statement that he is “receiving medical care” and his “family’s focus right now is on his well-being”, while also thanking fans for their support. Hilton was taken to a hospital late Tuesday after a TikTok live stream led many viewers to contact authorities, the Miami-Dade county sheriff’s office confirmed to multiple media outlets. During the live stream, Hilton appeared to be covered in blood and was shown to be self-harming as viewers flooded the comments urging him to stop. Emergency responders were seen outside Hilton’s Miami, Florida, home on Tuesday night after members of the public reported witnessing the incident on the live stream. Minutes later, Hilton’s TikTok account was suspended. In a statement issued on Tuesday, the Miami-Dade sheriff’s office did not identify Hilton by name but confirmed deputies responded after receiving reports of a man “livestreaming acts of self-harm on social media”. The sheriff’s office told CNN that authorities “spoke with family members on scene, and confirmed he was alone inside” before de-escalating the situation. Although TikTok removed the livestream, screen recordings quickly spread across platforms including X and Instagram. The circulation of the footage prompted users to encourage others to disable video autoplay and mute mentions of Hilton, while also drawing criticism of TikTok for allowing the graphic live stream. Born Mario Armando Lavandeira Jr, the blogger adopted the name Perez Hilton as a play on the hotel heiress Paris Hilton. He has long described himself as the “original influencer”, launching his celebrity gossip blog in 2004 and becoming one of the most recognizable figures during the rise of blogs and online tabloids in the early internet era. In the US, you can call or text the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline at 988 or chat at 988lifeline.org . In the UK and Ireland, Samaritans can be contacted on freephone 116 123. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is 13 11 14. Other international helplines can be found at befrienders.org Explore more on these topics Perez Hilton Celebrity TikTok news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)