FIFA’s Infantino backed in Colombia where he attends president inauguration | Football News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up Sport | Football FIFA’s Infantino backed in Colombia where he attends president inauguration FIFA President Gianni Infantino gets South American football’s backing while at Abelardo de la Espriella’s inauguration. Listen (3 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google FIFA president Gianni Infantino waves on arrival for the swearing-in ceremony of Colombia's new president, Abelardo de la Espriella [Luis Acosta/AFP] By AFP Published On 8 Aug 2026 8 Aug 2026 FIFA president Gianni Infantino has received support from several leading South American football figures as he visited Colombia amid the crisis engulfing world football’s governing body. Infantino arrived early on Friday in the Colombian city of Cali to attend the inauguration ceremony of hard-right President Abelardo de la Espriella. Recommended Stories list of 4 items list 1 of 4 Diego Maradona bloated, bedridden and resigned before death, says masseur list 2 of 4 Cricketer Shakib, an Hasina ally, will face trial in Bangladesh if secure list 3 of 4 Saudi Pro League’s England international Toney charged with assault list 4 of 4 Africa backs Infantino as CAF unanimously votes in FIFA president’s favour end of list Photos released by the Colombian Football Federation show a smiling Infantino standing alongside South American Football Confederation (CONMEBOL) president Alejandro Dominguez and the president of the Colombian federation, Ramon Jesurun. The visit to Colombia comes as the head of world football has been embroiled in a storm following a much-criticised and ultimately abandoned plan to open the World Cup to private investment. The 56-year-old Italian-Swiss lawyer, who has been in office since 2016, declined to answer a question from an AFP news agency journalist about whether he considered FIFA’s woes to be over. Later, while attending a children’s football festival at a sports complex in Cali, he spoke of his “happiness” at being at the event. “It is a joy to be here today,” the FIFA boss told dozens of children kitted out in football gear. “Football is joy, football is happiness, football is unity”, he said, adding that “so many champions” were born “in this part of the world, in this part of Colombia”. CONMEBOL throws backing behind Infantino Infantino, who will seek a fourth and final term in the FIFA presidential election in Rabat next March, is facing criticism, notably from European body UEFA, which on Thursday maintained its threat to boycott the World Cup despite FIFA’s withdrawal of the private investment proposal. Advertisement CONMEBOL, which has only 10 FIFA-affiliated members but includes iconic federations such as Argentina and Brazil, had on Thursday expressed its “concern regarding the repeated unilateral actions taken” by FIFA. However, when asked by a Colombian media outlet on Friday, the CONMEBOL president stated that “one cannot ignore the great work” done by Infantino. “We must continue working for football through dialogue; it is not necessary to always agree,” Dominguez said. After the powerful Argentine Football Association (AFA) and the Paraguayan federation pledged their backing on Thursday, Infantino also received support on Friday from two other South American federations – Venezuela’s and Ecuador’s. In line with their confederation’s statement, they welcomed the withdrawal of the controversial plan to create a commercial entity, known as the FIFA Forward Enterprise, open to private investors. In a letter to the FIFA chief, Ecuadorian federation president Francisco Egas Larreategui added that he had confidence in Infantino, “as well as in those currently leading football to continue working for the good of our sport”. Close to figures on the right of politics, such as US President Donald Trump, Infantino attended de la Espriella’s presidential inauguration ceremony later on Friday. Colombia’s incoming leader has broken with tradition by choosing to hold the ceremony in Cali, considered the capital of salsa, rather than before Congress in Bogota. Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network