Remains found in Arizona yard in search for missing couple, and their son may have left country, police say IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Politics U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline U.S. news Remains found in Arizona yard in search for missing couple, and their son may have left country, police say The bodies had not been identified Thursday. Police said officers conducting a welfare check found a large amount of blood and what appeared to be attempts to clean it up. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Avondale police officers stand near the crime scene where two people were found in Avondale, Ariz., on Thursday. Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 6, 2026, 7:40 PM EDT / Updated Aug. 6, 2026, 11:44 PM EDT By Phil Helsel The remains of two people were found in an Arizona backyard Thursday as police searched for a missing father and mother whose son is believed to have fled the country, police said. The son, Matthew Flores, 27, was initially part of the missing persons report made by concerned family members Tuesday, Avondale police spokesperson Officer Daniel Benavidez said. When police went to conduct a welfare check at the home in Litchfield Park they saw evidence of foul play, he said. They identified “a large amount of blood, and we also identified what we believed as evidence in an attempt to conceal that blood, and that’s what made us believe that foul play is involved,” Benavidez said at a news conference Thursday. The human remains found in the backyard had not been identified Thursday afternoon, police said. They were being recovered with the assistance of Phoenix police homicide unit when Benavidez spoke with reporters. Area where two people were found dead in their backyard in Avondale, Ariz., on Thursday. Family members on Tuesday afternoon called police and said they expected the mother, father and their adult son to be at the residence where the remains were later found, Benavidez said. Police said that they believe Flores fled the country before officers conducted the welfare check Tuesday. Police did not release the names of the parents Thursday on request from the family that reported the people missing, Benavidez said. The bodies were found buried in the backyard and were in a state of decomposition, police said. Police did not say how long they were believed to have been there. Police were calling Flores a suspect in the missing persons investigation Thursday, Benavidez said. Police were looking for Flores and have leads in the case, Benavidez said. They asked anyone with information about Flores’ movements or about him to contact the department. Benavidez did not say to which country Flores is believed to have fled. "All I can say is that he fled the country,” he said. Share Add NBC News to Google Phil Helsel Phil Helsel is a reporter for NBC News. Christiana Corporon contributed . About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC