Gianni Infantino: Uefa says Fifa's backing of its president 'changes nothing' - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Football Scores & Fixtures Tables World Cup Follow Your Team Pre-Season Fixtures Gossip Transfers Women European Leagues & Cups Quizzes Uefa says boycott may still go ahead as FA withdraws Infantino support Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Gianni Infantino apologised following a Fifa executive meeting in Morocco on Wednesday By Dan Roan , Sports editor and Dale Johnson , Football issues correspondent Published 5 hours ago European teams could still boycott competitions including the World Cup as Uefa says Fifa's defence of its president Gianni Infantino "changes nothing". The English FA has sent a letter withdrawing its support for Infantino in reaction to the plan to sell off stakes in the World Cup to private investors. European governing body Uefa said in a statement its conditions had not been met, despite Infantino's plan being aborted. "First, the proposals to sell off the major competitions had to be withdrawn and secondly," Uefa's statement said. "Assurances have to be made that such attempts to disfigure the game in this way will never be made again. "These conditions have not been met." Uefa has already said it has lost confidence in Infantino, calling the Fifa Forward Enterprise (FFE) proposal a "shabby, back room, opaque deal". Infantino sorry for errors but stays Fifa president Published 1 day ago If Infantino goes, who might replace him as Fifa president? Published 3 days ago Infantino had offered all associations $40m (£30m) if they backed a proposal for private investment in its tournaments, including the men's and women's World Cups, through the FFE subsidiary. World governing body Fifa said during Wednesday's meeting "mistakes" regarding FFE were "acknowledged", saying it was "not the intention" for the Fifa Council and members association to "feel excluded from the process and that the process should have been handled differently". Uefa's statement in response added: "Uefa made it abundantly clear in its statement on Saturday that it has lost confidence in Gianni Infantino's presidency. That position holds. "Yesterday's announcement that some people employed by the Fifa president (and whose careers depend on his favour) agree with him changes nothing." Fifa has been approached for comment. Why Fifa's statement did not impress Uefa Infantino arrived at Fifa's offices in Rabat, Morocco on Wednesday in now-familiar fashion, chauffeured to the building in a motorcade, sitting in the back of a Mercedes with blacked out windows. Some questioned whether he would still be the Fifa president when he left. Yet if anything, on the surface at least, Infantino appears emboldened. This was not the 56-year-old being ordered to a hearing to explain his actions. It was Infantino who summoned members of the Fifa management board to sit around the table with him, to talk through the events of the last week. Secretary general Mattias Grafstrom, Infantino's right-hand man, had been critical in an internal memo to staff, calling the FFE proposals "a sad and reproachable series of events" . After the meeting finished it appeared to be water under the bridge, with Infantino and Grafstrom pictured sat next to each other and smiling at a Women's Africa Cup of Nations match between Malawi and Zambia. If there were clear-the-air talks, they appear to have worked. Other members of the Fifa management board to attend the meeting included finance chief Thomas Peyer, legal chief Emilio Garcia Silvero, chief of staff Daniel O'Toole, chief of member associations Elkhan Mammadov and media relations director Bryan Swanson. BBC Sport has been told that Fifa's chief operating officer, Kevin Lamour, was not invited. Lamour strongly criticised Infantino's FFE plan, saying it was "the project of one person", and "the time has now come for football's political leaders to ask themselves the right questions and make the right decisions". He added: "I lose my job, then so be it. At least I'll sleep well tonight." Lamour has declined to comment to the BBC. Fifa has been approached for comment. What concerns Uefa is that this meeting was a gathering of employees who are themselves part of the regime. It is unknown if Infantino was forced to answer difficult questions about his plan. Questions such as: who was involved? Whether there was a competitive tender process? And if he stood to benefit personally? While Fifa said "mistakes made were acknowledged" and an "apology was made", there was no direct accountability for the controversy. Uefa still wants answers to those key questions and will not be content until it gets them - or Infantino leaves. Figure caption, Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup A boycott remains Uefa's one key asset Uefa is in something of a pickle as it tries to get rid of Infantino. The easiest route to success was the slow turning of the vice throughout this week, hoping to exert enough pressure to force him to quit. Yet the Swiss appears to have no intention of walking away. European football looks like an outlier, struggling to gain enough support to topple him. On Thursday, Lamin Kaba Bajo, the president of the Gambia Football Federation, praised Infantino's "courage" and for the U-turn, and said he was "willing to give him my support more than ever". Only Jordan, one of the few countries which did not back Infantino before last week, has publicly stated it will not vote for his re-election in March. Concacaf, which oversees football in North and Central America and the Caribbean, also issued a public statement after the proposal was aborted but, unlike Uefa, it did not go as far as to say it had lost confidence in the Fifa president. Conmebol, the South American confederation, said on Thursday it would not support "any action or procedure that disregards" Fifa's mechanisms before the presidential election. The Confederation of African Football (Caf) said its executive committee "unanimously reconfirmed" its support for Infantino and thanked him for his support for African football over the years. Ideally, Uefa would force an emergency meeting of the Fifa Council, to provide what it would consider to be a true chance to hold Infantino to account. But getting the necessary 19 of 36 confederation and football association heads to support it has proven to be exceptionally difficult. Uefa has also kept on the table the option of a vote of no confidence, which it can trigger via an extraordinary congress any time it wishes. However, it would need a majority of Fifa's 211 member associations - 106 votes - to pass the motion. It would be a de facto presidential election without a second candidate. If Uefa does not think it can get to 106, which looks a stretch, then there is little point in triggering the vote. The other option is to try to find a unity candidate to stand against Infantino in the election next March. The favourite would be Concacaf president Victor Montagliani. Any option which takes time gives Infantino space to build bridges, and with Fifa due to announce new funding to member associations by the end of the year he could dangle another carrot for his re-election. Unless Uefa sticks by the nuclear option - and goes through with its threat of a boycott. This has issues, and it is not a lever you can pull very often, otherwise it gives the impression of riding roughshod over the rest of the world. It is one thing to use it to jettison the FFE proposal, another entirely to effectively dethrone the president with it. Uefa's stance will soon be tested, with the Fifa Women's U20s World Cup kicking off in Poland on 5 September. Six European countries are due to take part, including England. Analysis: A feeling Infantino is trying to swerve responsibility Some at the European confederation claim Wednesday's statement shows exactly why the beleaguered president must step down. The feeling within Uefa is that the statement was far from representative of the entire world governing body, and that there has been a lack of consultation with the council or membership. There is also a view that Infantino is trying to swerve personal responsibility by sharing out the blame for the aborted proposals, and that he alone should have apologised - rather than issue his expression of regret alongside his deputy Grafstrom. In stark contrast, within Fifa, the view from one Infantino loyalist is that the outcry, especially in Europe, is bordering on "hysteria", and fails to acknowledge the legitimacy he has globally. By clinging to power, Infantino has mounted the start of an attempted fightback. But it could yet fuel the revolt against him, both from outside and within Fifa. And it looks increasingly likely his opponents will have to identity the rival candidate that could challenge him at next year's presidential election. Related topics Football More on this story Courting controversy and befriending Trump - the story of Fifa boss Infantino Published 5 days ago The five dramatic days that shook Infantino and world football Published 5 days ago Follow your club with BBC Sport Published 8 June Shorts Previous Next 0:44 Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup. 00:00:44, play video Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup 1:11 The incredible story of Yan Diomande. 00:01:11, play video The incredible story of Yan Diomande 1:06 'Athletes should speak up if they're struggling' 00:01:06, play video 'Athletes should speak up if they're struggling' 0:57 Curran and Ahmed still in England Test plans - North. 00:00:57, play video Curran and Ahmed still in England Test plans - North 0:32 Thousands welcome World Cup hero Vozinha in Chile. 00:00:32, play video Thousands welcome World Cup hero Vozinha in Chile 1:19 Afghan women's team can play again after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team can play again after ban 0:41 Rush emotional at exhibition honouring career. 00:00:41, play video Rush emotional at exhibition honouring career 1:20 Memes, burgers and Danny Dyer - British runners come clean. 00:01:20, play video Memes, burgers and Danny Dyer - British runners come clean 0:39 How Smalling went from A-levels to Premier League. 00:00:39, play video How Smalling went from A-levels to Premier League 1:22 Be your 'biggest cheerleader' - positive advice from Amy Hunt. 00:01:22, play video Be your 'biggest cheerleader' - positive advice from Amy Hunt 0:25 'I've been really impressed with him' - Arteta on O'Neill. 00:00:25, play video 'I've been really impressed with him' - Arteta on O'Neill 0:46 Chelsea's 16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli. 00:00:46, play video Chelsea's 16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli 1:15 How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? 00:01:15, play video How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? Top stories Vinicius Jr and Real Madrid agree new six-year deal Published 4 hours ago Uefa says boycott may still go ahead as FA withdraws Infantino support Published 5 hours ago Trafford joins Leeds from Man City in potential £45m deal Published 3 hours ago Elsewhere on the BBC 'I said maybeeee...' Aviation is being reimagined for the changing planet A new high-stakes thriller crackling with danger Did Fenners score the first ever goal at the new Wembley Stadium? Elsewhere in Sport Players who turned World Cup heroics into big transfers A wanted man - but would Liverpool's Gakpo be a good fit at Spurs? Weekly sports quiz: Beckham at the Commonwealth Games? Newcastle appoint Jaissle - what should fans expect? Rockets march on after easy win against Phoenix. Video Rockets march on after easy win against Phoenix Lines to be first British woman in America's Cup team for 90 years How Buttler became T20 cricket's run-scoring GOAT Chelsea lose friendly as Juventus score stunning winner. Video Chelsea lose friendly as Juventus score stunning winner Why Liverpool are ready to make Barcola third £100m signing No WSL experience but who is new Man Utd boss Olid? Why £1m-a-season deal will be hard for Pollock and Hearn to find A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season Why we are still waiting for the 'Newey effect' - F1 Q&A The summer that changed Welsh football The ex-sandwich maker who cycles to Champions League games How Mumbai Indians takeover has affected MI London & Surrey Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.