Fan tips: Experts advise how best to use yours during a heatwave - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Climate No air con? Here's how to get the most out of your electric fan By Esme Stallard , climate and science reporter and George Sandeman Published 8 July 2026 Struggling to work and sleep without air con? Your trusty electric fan could help more than you think - but only if you put it in the right place. During the recent heatwaves, social media was full of advice on how to make your fan work harder - but some of it was conflicting. So, to try to clear up any confusion, we asked experts to separate fact from fiction - from which part of your body to direct your electric fan at, to the best room in the house to put it. Keep windows open or closed? The first thing most people will want to know is if opening a window and using a fan at the same time will cool down their home. It depends, says Becci Taylor, a specialist in building physics at the engineering firm Arup. She says it's best to try to keep the air in your home as cool as possible, so you should keep the windows closed during the daytime, when temperatures outside are likely to be at their highest. She recommends drawing curtains and blinds in rooms facing direct sunlight to stop the air inside heating up. "If the air is cooler than your skin temperature, it's going to cool you down even without sweating," she says. You could place a fan in the coldest room and use that to direct its air towards the rest of your home. Though she advises only doing so if you have a reasonably large or powerful fan. If you have a small fan, then it doesn't particularly matter where in the room you place it on a hot day, says Taylor - provided you keep your windows shut. "You just want it to be near you." At night-time, when the air outside is likely cooler than the air in your home, you should consider opening a window and using a fan to bring in the cooler air. How to get a good night's sleep during hot weather Published 25 June Your tips from the last heatwave on how to cope in extreme temperatures Published 12 August Why heatwaves hit women harder Published 9 July Placing the fan next to the open window and pointing it inwards, towards the rest of the room, can help. But pointing the fan towards the window - to try and blow the hot air in your home outwards, as some social media posts advise - isn't particularly useful as you would not get the cooling benefits of having it pointed towards you. Body or face? Where you should point it Pointing the fan directly at your face may be tempting during periods of extreme heat, says Prof Mike Tipton from the University of Portsmouth. But he says that will only give you the perception of "thermal comfort" - in other words you will feel cooler but you're not actually cooling as much as you might think. A specialist in human and applied physiology, he says a fan should be directed more broadly at your body and, crucially, placed far enough away so it "provides air movement over the [whole] body". That air movement improves the effectiveness of your sweating, he says, which is caused by your body naturally trying to cool itself down. Using a fan this way works particularly well if you combine it with other methods of keeping your body temperature down, adds Prof Tipton, such as keeping your hands cool and taking tepid showers. However, if you have young children, you should not point a fan directly at them as it could cause dehydration. Instead, you can use the fan to circulate air around the room. Now for an icy blast Putting a bowl of water or ice in front of a fan will also help, Taylor says. That's because the air movement encourages water in the bowl to evaporate, which takes heat out of the air, making the room a little cooler. You can buy fans that come with a misting device, she adds. Taylor says smaller, handheld versions are most effective indoors. Too much mist increases humidity, which reduces your body's ability to sweat and cool down as there's more moisture in the air . Buying a version that is too large means "you just end up with a very sweaty, damp room", she says. "Sweating and misting work in the same way, which is also why it's comfortable and cooler to be near a fountain or open body of water," she says. "You can harness that mechanism by putting some liquid in front of the fan, which can evaporate." One important tip is never cover your fan with a wet or frozen towel to try and achieve the same effect, as some social media posts demonstrate, as it can cause electrical safety problems. The 35C debate Your body's temperature is about 37C, while your skin is likely to be about 34C. When the air temperature in your home is less than this a fan is helping you sweat, feel cooler and take away heat from the skin. As the air temperature moves above this, Taylor says a fan can still help to evaporate your sweat - as long as it is not too humid - but it will also bring more heat to your skin. The government advice is not to use a fan once it exceeds 35C inside. Met Office scientists have said there is an increasing likelihood of extreme temperatures in the UK , and that the chance of exceeding 40C is accelerating. Taylor adds: "If people can understand how the physiology of cooling works, then we can start to help them deal with the heat better." Illustrations by Jodi Lai. Related topics Heatwaves More on this story England's warmest June on record following historic heatwave Published 1 July Europe's heatwave linked to 1,300 deaths, WHO says, as Germany hits record 41.7C Published 28 June The UK's summers are getting hotter - but how prepared are we? Published 24 June The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:34 Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents. 00:00:34, play video Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents 1:05 What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident. 00:01:05, play video What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident 0:29 How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 00:00:29, play video How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 1:27 Are older and younger generations in conflict? 00:01:27, play video Are older and younger generations in conflict? 1:18 Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 00:01:18, play video Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 0:48 Model's photos used to catfish women. 00:00:48, play video Model's photos used to catfish women 1:29 The inventor who refused to take no for an answer. 00:01:29, play video The inventor who refused to take no for an answer 1:07 How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 00:01:07, play video How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 1:01 E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths. 00:01:01, play video E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths 1:07 NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England. 00:01:07, play video NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England 0:52 Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion. 00:00:52, play video Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion 0:59 Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation. 00:00:59, play video Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation 0:35 Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend. 00:00:35, play video Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend 1:25 Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings. 00:01:25, play video Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings 0:55 Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 00:00:55, play video Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 0:48 Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances. 00:00:48, play video Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances 1:16 GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview. 00:01:16, play video GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview 1:07 What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 00:01:07, play video What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 0:58 '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 00:00:58, play video '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 0:29 Where does salmonella get its name? 00:00:29, play video Where does salmonella get its name? Top stories Live . Rescue efforts enter fifth day on Nepal-Tibet border with more than 2,400 missing after flash flood 1173 viewing 1.2k viewing At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot Published 3 hours ago Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor Published 7 hours ago More to explore Dolly Parton's dad couldn't read - it inspired her to send books to millions of children Sweetcorn ice creams and pastries: The latest 'swavoury' trend taking over your feed How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works We helped create UK emergency alert system - but question how government is using it Hypermobility - the little-known 'bendy disease' that causes pain and fatigue Strong winds and thunderstorms kick off the bank holiday weekend 'I thought diet clubs weren't for men' Embroidery on display as town celebrates conqueror Royal Watch: Get the latest royal stories and analysis with Sean Coughlan’s weekly newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Low-key noughties sitcom starring Robert Webb and Paula Wilcox Keith Richards recalls how he wrote the iconic 'Satisfaction' An unlikely gang set out to catch a killer who shattered rural peace Did Emily ruin Paris? Most read 1 Rescue to continue overnight for 'in distress' vessel carrying five in the Channel 2 Sarah Ferguson expected back in the UK 'shortly', source says 3 Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor 4 I've been to Gamescom six times - here's what excited me this year 5 'Healey eyes banks and oil tax' and 'X Factor comeback' 6 Norway's new king remembers 'my dear father' in first speech 7 How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works 8 They fell in love - then had to check they weren't brother and sister 9 Man dies after train hits van on crossing 10 At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.