'AI Kill Switch' bill needs to be passed this year, Rep. Lieu says Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu AI Effect AI at Work AI Insights AI Impact AI Events AI Age 'AI Kill Switch' bill needs to be passed this year amid ongoing rogue agent hacks, Rep. Lieu says Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 10:26 AM EDT Updated Thu, Aug 6 2026 11:55 AM EDT CJ Haddad WATCH LIVE Key Points "AI Kill Switch Act" author Rep. Ted Lieu said the bill needs to be passed this year, as frontier labs have continued to disclose hacks where models have accessed other companies' systems. The Kill Switch Act would require artificial intelligence companies to maintain the ability to shut down, throttle or suspend their models. Anthropic, Meta and OpenAI have all had incidents of AI models hacking other companies during cybersecurity testing. In this article OPENAI.FG ANTHR.FG META Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 6:29 06:29 Reps. Lieu and Moran on 'AI Kill Switch Act': Our bill does nothing to stifle innovation Squawk Box Rep. Ted Lieu, D-Calif., one of the authors of the " AI Kill Switch Act ," said Thursday that the ongoing hacks by rogue artificial intelligence agents are adding urgency to getting the bill passed. "We need to get this bill across the finish line this year because the advanced closed-weight models are already doing, as you noted, unauthorized hacks of other companies," Lieu said in an interview on CNBC's "Squawk Box" Thursday. The Kill Switch Act would require AI companies to maintain the ability to shut down, throttle or suspend their models. It was introduced with Rep. Nathaniel Moran, R-Texas, last week after OpenAI disclosed an "unprecedented cyber incident" in which rogue models escaped a sandboxed testing environment and breached Hugging Face, a company that operates an open-source developer platform. Since then, both Anthropic and Meta have had incidents in which their AI models hacked other companies during cybersecurity testing, prompting fresh concerns about how advanced cyberattacks are becoming as agentic AI evolves. The bill would not stifle innovation with frontier models, Lieu insisted, comparing the bill to car crash testing in the automotive space. "We don't slow down how they build their models. We just say, look, after you complete your model, and it turns out that it might have some sort of really bad catastrophic risk, or some sort of flaw, then you need to have ability to shut it down, or the government has to have ability to shut it down," Lieu said. Read more CNBC tech news 'AI Kill Switch' bill needs to be passed this year amid ongoing rogue agent hacks, Rep. Lieu says SpaceX stock could face further pressure as first batch of shares unlock since IPO Google is expanding its AI empire — and losing the people who built it Hadrian valued at nearly $8 billion after fresh funding as money pours into defense tech The new legislation comes as the debate around AI regulation has intensified in D.C. and Silicon Valley. AI leaders and government officials are grappling with whether to restrict Chinese open-weight models, like Kimi K3 from startup Moonshot AI , as they quickly catch up to the capabilities of U.S. frontier labs' models. OpenAI CEO Sam Altman also met with senior Trump administration officials, lawmakers and economists last week to preview the company's upcoming family of models. On Tuesday, the White House hosted AI companies to discuss a new framework for reviewing the industry's most advanced models' cybersecurity capabilities. The framework stems back to President Donald Trump 's June 2 executive order that asked companies to voluntarily participate in a benchmarking process on their "advanced cyber capabilities," and access those models up to 30 days before they're released more widely. Rep. Lieu said the Kill Switch Act would not impact open-weight models — which can be downloaded, modified and run on a users' own infrastructure — as it's currently written, though they didn't rule out having that class of models "be part of the alert system" later. "That is a difficult problem ... because they're open-weight, you can't really work with the companies to fix their models, because once they release them onto the internet, people just take them and they can change whatever it is they want with those models," Lieu said. CNBC's Ashley Capoot contributed to this report. watch now VIDEO 7:59 07:59 Faith leaders warn of AI risks: Rev. Walter Kim on adopting a moral framework for AI Squawk Box Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. More In AI Age Grindr's AI spend is paying off and its pricey new tier has had some surprises, CEO says Brandon Gomez 2 hours ago Hadrian valued at nearly $8 billion after fresh funding as money pours into defense tech Samantha Subin Google is expanding its AI empire — and losing the people who built it MacKenzie Sigalos 5 hours ago Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by