Wells Fargo Active Cash Card Review This device is too small If you're on a Galaxy Fold, consider unfolding your phone or viewing it in full screen to best optimize your experience. Skip to main content Advertiser Disclosure Many of the offers that appear on this site are from companies from which The Motley Fool receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where products appear on this site (including, for example, the order in which they appear) and may influence which products we write about, but our product ratings are not influenced by compensation. We do not include all companies or offers available in the marketplace. Websites may earn compensation when a customer clicks on a link, when an application is approved, or when an account is opened. | Accessibility Options As Seen In Unlimited 2% cash rewards and a simple $200 welcome offer by: Motley Fool Money Staff Last Updated: Aug. 9, 2026 Motley Fool Money is 100% free thanks to commissions we receive from our partners including for the offers on this page, but this never influences our product ratings. Citi is an advertising partner of Motley Fool Money. As Seen In As Seen In When the Wells Fargo Active Cash® Card ( rates and fees ) hit the market, it quickly stood out among our experts as one of the best all-around, no-annual-fee credit cards. It now holds our Best Credit Card for 2026 title for its reliable 2% cash rewards and everyday value. It’s easy to see why with these perks: Unlimited 2% cash rewards — the highest flat cash rewards rate we’ve come across with no hoops to jump though. $200 cash rewards welcome offer that you earn by spending just $500 in purchases in the first 3 months. 0% intro APR for 12 months from account opening on purchases (and also on qualifying balance transfers). After the intro period, a go-to rate of 18.49%, 24.49%, or 28.49% Variable APR applies. $0 annual fee . APPLY NOW to lock in these benefits today if approved. Apply Now for Wells Fargo Active Cash® Card On Wells Fargo's Secure Website . Rates & Fees Cash Rewards Wells Fargo Active Cash® Card Great for: Flat-Rate Cash Rewards Apply Now for Wells Fargo Active Cash® Card On Wells Fargo's Secure Website . Rates & Fees 5.00 out of 5 Our ratings are based on a 5 star scale. 5 stars equals Best. 4 stars equals Excellent. 3 stars equals Good. 2 stars equals Fair. 1 star equals Poor. We want your money to work harder for you. Which is why our ratings are biased toward offers that deliver versatility while cutting out-of-pocket costs. = Best = Excellent = Good = Fair = Poor 5.00 out of 5 Our ratings are based on a 5 star scale. 5 stars equals Best. 4 stars equals Excellent. 3 stars equals Good. 2 stars equals Fair. 1 star equals Poor. We want your money to work harder for you. Which is why our ratings are biased toward offers that deliver versatility while cutting out-of-pocket costs. = Best = Excellent = Good = Fair = Poor Credit Score: Falling within this credit range does not guarantee approval by the issuer. An application must be submitted to the issuer for a potential approval decision. There are different types of credit scores and creditors use a variety of credit scores to make lending decisions. Recommended Credit Score required for this offer is: Good/Excellent (670-850) Poor Fair Good Excellent 300-579 580-669 670-739 740-850 Good/Excellent (670-850) Apply Now for Wells Fargo Active Cash® Card On Wells Fargo's Secure Website . Rates & Fees Intro APR 0% intro APR for 12 months from account opening on purchases and qualifying balance transfers Purchases: 0% intro APR for 12 months from account opening on purchases Balance Transfers: 0% intro APR for 12 months from account opening on qualifying balance transfers Regular APR 18.49%, 24.49%, or 28.49% Variable APR Rewards Earn unlimited 2% cash rewards on purchases. 2% cash rewards Annual Fee $0 Welcome Offer Earn a $200 cash rewards bonus after spending $500 in purchases in the first 3 months. $200 cash rewards Card Details Apply Now to take advantage of this offer and learn more about product features, terms and conditions. Earn a $200 cash rewards bonus after spending $500 in purchases in the first 3 months. Earn unlimited 2% cash rewards on purchases. 0% intro APR for 12 months from account opening on purchases and qualifying balance transfers. 18.49%, 24.49%, or 28.49% variable APR thereafter; balance transfers made within 120 days qualify for the intro rate and fee of 3% then a BT fee of up to 5%, min: $5. $0 annual fee. No categories to track or remember and cash rewards don’t expire as long as your account remains open. Find tickets to top sports and entertainment events, book travel, make dinner reservations and more with your complimentary 24/7 Visa Signature® Concierge. Up to $600 of cell phone protection against damage or theft. Subject to a $25 deductible. Our top 5 reasons to apply today: Unlimited 2% cash rewards -- Cardholders earn an unlimited 2% cash rewards on purchases, with no categories to activate or earnings limits to track. There are other cards that offer higher cash back rates on certain categories, and while they can be worth it, they do require more effort. And they often are also subject to a cap and limited in what purchases they apply to. The Wells Fargo Active Cash® Card is perfect for someone that wants an easy-to-use card that still offers high rewards: you’ll earn a best-in-class flat rewards right away on your purchases -- with no limits or hoops to jump through. $200 cash rewards welcome offer -- New Wells Fargo Active Cash® Card holders can earn a $200 cash rewards welcome offer for spending just $500 in purchases in the first 3 months. Not only is this a very competitive sign-up bonus for a card with no annual fee, but it's also one of the things that sets this Wells Fargo credit card apart from other 2% back cards. We’ve yet to come across another credit card with 2% unlimited cash rewards that also has a sign-up bonus. 12 months from account opening 0% APR intro offer -- New cardholders can enjoy 0% intro APR on both new purchases and qualifying balance transfers for a full 12 months from account opening. (After that period, a go-to rate of 18.49%, 24.49%, or 28.49% Variable APR applies.) That's a great offer, even when compared to cards marketed just for a 0% intro APR. It means that this card will allow you to avoid interest on purchases and balance transfers for a full year! No annual fee -- In many cases, high rewards rates mean high annual fees. Not with the Wells Fargo Active Cash® Card, which sports a $0 annual fee. Cell phone protection -- With the price of a typical cell phone in the hundreds of dollars, having some sort of insurance is a good idea. With this Wells Fargo card, you can get built-in cell phone protection of up to $600 just by paying your cell phone bill with your card. Coverage is subject to a $25 deductible. Suggested credit score Approval for the Wells Fargo Active Cash® Card is most likely for applicants with good credit, which typically means a credit score of 670 or higher. If you need help rebuilding your credit, see this page. The card could be right for you if... We believe this is one of the best cash back cards for most people. Not only will you get a lucrative unlimited flat cash rewards rate, but it also sports a hefty, easy-to-earn sign-up bonus and a highly competitive 0% intro APR for 12 months from account opening on purchases and qualifying balance transfers, then 18.49%, 24.49%, or 28.49% Variable APR. Depending on what card is in your wallet today, there’s a high chance the Wells Fargo Active Cash® Card is a more lucrative upgrade -- and it could especially be an upgrade over debit cards, which have far worse fraud protections than credit cards and usually no rewards. To apply for potential approval today and make sure you don’t miss out on your bonus, simply click here: Wells Fargo Active Cash® Card Apply for Wells Fargo Active Cash® Card On Wells Fargo's Secure Website . Rates & Fees There's a right way to swipe Credit cards with rewards & 0% intro APR offers are excellent, but remember, they are a tool to help you get the most out of your spending. Motley Fool Money motto to follow: Pay off your card in full each month. Choose a card whose features are a good fit for you. Don't spend more than you already would. Follow this and you'll be making your money work overtime for you. Live richly, not risky. Our experts also recommend Capital One Quicksilver Cash Rewards Credit Card Apply Now for Capital One Quicksilver Cash Rewards Credit Card On Capital One's Secure Website . Rates & Fees 4.70 out of 5 Our ratings are based on a 5 star scale. 5 stars equals Best. 4 stars equals Excellent. 3 stars equals Good. 2 stars equals Fair. 1 star equals Poor. We want your money to work harder for you. Which is why our ratings are biased toward offers that deliver versatility while cutting out-of-pocket costs. = Best = Excellent = Good = Fair = Poor 4.70 out of 5 Our ratings are based on a 5 star scale. 5 stars equals Best. 4 stars equals Excellent. 3 stars equals Good. 2 stars equals Fair. 1 star equals Poor. We want your money to work harder for you. Which is why our ratings are biased toward offers that deliver versatility while cutting out-of-pocket costs. = Best = Excellent = Good = Fair = Poor Credit Score: Falling within this credit range does not guarantee approval by the issuer. An application must be submitted to the issuer for a potential approval decision. There are different types of credit scores and creditors use a variety of credit scores to make lending decisions. Recommended Credit Score required for this offer is: Good/Excellent Poor Fair Good Excellent Good/Excellent Apply Now for Capital One Quicksilver Cash Rewards Credit Card On Capital One's Secure Website . Rates & Fees Intro APR Purchases: 0% intro on purchases for 15 months Balance Transfers: 0% intro on balance transfers for 15 months (Balance Transfer Fee Applies) Regular APR 18.49% - 28.49% (Variable) Rewards Earn unlimited 1.5% cash back on every purchase, every day. Earn unlimited 5% cash back on hotels, vacation rentals and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel. 1.5%-5% cash back Annual Fee $0 Welcome Offer Earn $200 Cash Back after you spend $500 on purchases within 3 months from account opening Earn $200 Cash Back Card Details Earn a one-time $200 cash bonus after you spend $500 on purchases within 3 months from account opening Earn unlimited 1.5% cash back on every purchase, every day $0 annual fee and no foreign transaction fees Earn unlimited 5% cash back on hotels, vacation rentals and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel No rotating categories or sign-ups needed to earn cash rewards; plus, cash back won't expire for the life of the account and there's no limit to how much you can earn 0% intro APR on purchases and balance transfers for 15 months; 18.49% - 28.49% variable APR after that; balance transfer fee applies Top rated mobile app Citi Double Cash® Card Apply Now for Citi Double Cash® Card On Citi's Secure Website . Rates & Fees 4.90 out of 5 Our ratings are based on a 5 star scale. 5 stars equals Best. 4 stars equals Excellent. 3 stars equals Good. 2 stars equals Fair. 1 star equals Poor. We want your money to work harder for you. Which is why our ratings are biased toward offers that deliver versatility while cutting out-of-pocket costs. = Best = Excellent = Good = Fair = Poor 4.90 out of 5 Our ratings are based on a 5 star scale. 5 stars equals Best. 4 stars equals Excellent. 3 stars equals Good. 2 stars equals Fair. 1 star equals Poor. We want your money to work harder for you. Which is why our ratings are biased toward offers that deliver versatility while cutting out-of-pocket costs. = Best = Excellent = Good = Fair = Poor Credit Score: Falling within this credit range does not guarantee approval by the issuer. An application must be submitted to the issuer for a potential approval decision. There are different types of credit scores and creditors use a variety of credit scores to make lending decisions. Recommended Credit Score required for this offer is: Good/Excellent (670-850) Poor Fair Good Excellent 300-579 580-669 670-739 740-850 Good/Excellent (670-850) Apply Now for Citi Double Cash® Card On Citi's Secure Website . Rates & Fees Intro APR Purchases: N/A Balance Transfers: 0%, 18 months on Balance Transfers Regular APR 17.49% - 27.49% (Variable) Rewards Earn 2% on every purchase with unlimited 1% cash back when you buy, plus an additional 1% as you pay for those purchases. To earn cash back, pay at least the minimum due on time. Plus, earn 5% total cash back on hotel, car rentals and attractions booked with Citi Travel. 2% cash back Annual Fee N/A $0 Welcome Offer Earn $200 cash back after you spend $1,500 on purchases in the first 6 months of account opening. This bonus offer will be fulfilled as 20,000 ThankYou® Points, which can be redeemed for $200 cash back. $200 Card Details Earn $200 cash back after you spend $1,500 on purchases in the first 6 months of account opening. This bonus offer will be fulfilled as 20,000 ThankYou® Points, which can be redeemed for $200 cash back. Earn 2% on every purchase with unlimited 1% cash back when you buy, plus an additional 1% as you pay for those purchases. To earn cash back, pay at least the minimum due on time. Plus, earn 5% total cash back on hotel, car rentals and attractions booked with Citi Travel. Balance Transfer Only Offer: 0% intro APR on Balance Transfers for 18 months. After that, the variable APR will be 17.49% - 27.49%, based on your creditworthiness. Balance Transfers do not earn cash back. Intro APR does not apply to purchases. If you transfer a balance, interest will be charged on your purchases unless you pay your entire balance (including balance transfers) by the due date each month. There is an intro balance transfer fee of 3% of each transfer (minimum $5) completed within the first 4 months of account opening. After that, your fee will be 5% of each transfer (minimum $5). Our Credit Cards Experts By: Motley Fool Money Staff Motley Fool Money brings financial expertise, trusted advice, and unbiased analysis to the world of daily personal finance decisions. Our mission is to help you live more richly. We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers. Motley Fool Money does not cover all offers on the market. Motley Fool Money is 100% owned and operated by The Motley Fool. Our knowledgeable team of personal finance editors and analysts are employed by The Motley Fool and held to the same set of publishing standards and editorial integrity while maintaining professional separation from the analysts and editors on other Motley Fool brands. Motley Fool Stock Disclosures Wells Fargo is an advertising partner of Motley Fool Money. JPMorgan Chase is an advertising partner of Motley Fool Money. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends JPMorgan Chase, Target, Uber Technologies, and Visa. The Motley Fool recommends Capital One Financial. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy . Motley Fool Money is a Motley Fool service that rates and reviews essential products for your everyday money matters. Copyright © 2018 - 2026 Motley Fool Money. All rights reserved. About Motley Fool Money About Us Contact Us Newsroom How We Make Money Editorial Integrity Ratings Methodology RSS Feed About The Motley Fool Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Terms and Conditions Copyright, Trademark and Patent Information Do Not Sell My Personal Information Learn Credit Cards Banking Brokerage Cryptocurrency Mortgages Insurance Loans Recent Articles Back to The Motley Fool