Jorge Messi, father of Argentina soccer great Lionel Messi, dies at 68 - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War UFO Files World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War UFO Files World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News World Jorge Messi, father of Argentina soccer great Lionel Messi, dies at 68 By Mark Osborne August 8, 2026 / 12:06 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Jorge Messi, the father and longtime agent of soccer great Lionel Messi , has died. He was 68 years old. The death was confirmed by CONMEBOL, the South American football federation, the Argentina National Football Team and in a statement from the family provided to Reuters. "CONMEBOL deeply regrets the passing of Jorge Messi, father of Argentine footballer Lionel Messi," the federation said in a statement translated from Spanish on social media. "We accompany Lionel, his family, friends, and loved ones with respect and affection in this moment of profound grief. May he rest in peace." The Argentina National Football Team said in a brief statement on social media , "Sending our deepest strength to Leo Messi and his family. We're with you during this difficult time and sending you our warmest embrace." Lionel Messi and Argentina finished second in this year's World Cup after the soccer great led his home country to the world title in 2022. Jorge Messi was seen on the field with his son after reaching the sport's mountaintop. "Jorge was the pillar of strength and the person who, along with his wife, Celia Cuccittini, supported the career of the greatest player of all time with vision, rigor, and affection," Newell's Old Boys, the first club where Lionel Messi played in Argentina, said in a statement on Jorge Messi's death. "His constant support and behind-the-scenes leadership were fundamental in backing every step of Lionel's journey, from his beginnings in the Falklands to the pinnacle of world football glory. "Thank you for teaching him to love these colors," the statement concluded. Jorge Messi and Celia Cuccittini, parents of Inter Miami's Argentine forward Lionel Messi, wait for the start of the MLS Eastern Conference final in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, on Nov. 29, 2025. Chandan Khanna/AFP via Getty Images Jorge Messi took his son to Barcelona for his first tryout with the Spanish super club in 2000 and then moved to Spain with him when he was signed by the club soon thereafter. Lionel Messi made his debut with Barcelona at just 16 years old. His father became his agent and saw him through deals with Barcelona, Paris Saint-Germain and his current club, MLS team Inter Miami. Lionel Messi was visibly emotional after scoring a hat trick in Argentina's first game of this year's World Cup against Algeria. In a press conference after the match, he said the reason for crying on the pitch was "something unrelated to football," but he did not further elaborate. Messi's family then released a statement on Jorge, saying he was "going through a health-related situation" and "under medical care, recovering and evolving favorably, given the condition he is experiencing." The family also criticized the "rumors and speculations" around Jorge Messi's health and called it a private matter. Lionel Messi's Inter Miami squad was scheduled to play Monterrey in the Leagues Cup on Saturday night. It was unclear if he would play after the announcement of his father's death. More from CBS News Helicopter fighting massive Utah wildfire crashes, no word on 2 people aboard Murkowski says she'll vote against Blanche's nomination for attorney general Iran targets ship in Strait of Hormuz even as it says deal is close Russian drone factory director seriously injured in car explosion Go deeper with The Free Press How Wikipedia Turned a World Cup Controversy Into an Antisemitic Conspiracy Theory The Women Who Help People Die In: Miami FC Lionel Messi Argentina World Cup © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Roger Bennett on the impact of the World Cup Roger Bennett on the impact of the World Cup, Messi's legacy 05:13 Roger Bennett on the impact of the World Cup, Messi's legacy (05:13) Helicopter fighting massive Utah wildfire crashes, no word on 2 people aboard Murkowski says she'll vote against Blanche's nomination for attorney general Iran targets ship in Strait of Hormuz even as it says deal is close How Wikipedia Turned a World Cup Controversy Into an Antisemitic Conspiracy Theory Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue