Starmer: ‘Sooner or later’ Russia must yield to peace Accessibility links Skip to main content Skip to main Navigation Skip to Search Next Close Previous Next This image contains sensitive content which some people may find offensive or disturbing. Click to reveal Print Options: Images Multimedia Embedded Content Comments Cancel Print Link has been copied to clipboard Home United States U.S. News All About America World Africa The Americas East Asia Europe Middle East South & Central Asia Broadcast Programs VOA Languages Latest Global Coverage Follow Us Languages Search Search Previous Next Breaking News Ukraine Starmer: ‘Sooner or later’ Russia must yield to peace By VOA News March 15, 2025 11:56 AM Starmer: ‘Sooner or later’ Russia must yield to peace Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share In this photo taken from video on March 15, 2025, British Prime Minister Keir Starmer participates from London in a virtual meeting with a group of European, Australian, New Zealand and Canadian leaders. They discussed the proposed ceasefire between Russia and Ukraine. Britain’s leader encouraged his global counterparts to continue pushing for a ceasefire between Russia and Ukraine at the start of a virtual meeting Saturday intended to end the fighting between the two countries. British Prime Minister Keir Starmer told a virtual meeting of mostly European leaders that “sooner or later” Russia would have to engage in talks on reaching a ceasefire in the three-year conflict. He addressed the group, described as a “coalition of the willing,” of mostly European leaders as well as those from Australia, New Zealand and Canada but not the United States. “Sooner or later, he’s going to have to come to the table,” Starmer said of Russian President Vladimir Putin, whose country invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24, 2022. Earlier, U.S. President Donald Trump urged Moscow to accept a ceasefire deal agreed to by U.S. and Ukrainian delegations in Saudi Arabia, and U.S. Secretary of State Marco Rubio had said “the ball is in Russia's court.” Putin has said he agrees with a ceasefire in theory, but Russia still has certain conditions and questions that must be addressed before accepting any agreement. In his nightly video address, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy suggested that Putin is stalling and has demanded so many preconditions “that nothing will work out at all.” Meanwhile, the U.S. has expanded sanctions on Russian oil and gas as well as its financial sectors. Saturday’s discussion among world leaders could address future military and financial support for Ukraine and Zelenskyy’s security concerns if a peace deal is reached. Zelenskyy attended Saturday’s online video session. Starmer: ‘Sooner or later’ Russia must yield to peace Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share Share Copy link Facebook Twitter Email Share Follow us Facebook X (Twitter) Youtube Instagram Follow us Print VOA News The Voice of America provides news and information in more than 40 languages to an estimated weekly audience of over 326 million people. Stories with the VOA News byline are the work of multiple VOA journalists and may contain information from wire service reports. This item is part of Europe Ukraine Related Kremlin: Reasons to be optimistic about ceasefire deal Putin tries to punt decision on Ukraine back to Trump G7 urges Russia to accept ceasefire or face further sanctions Putin says Ukrainian troops in Russia's Kursk must 'surrender or die' ​ Follow Us United States US News All About America World Africa The Americas East Asia Pacific Europe Middle East South & Central Asia Sections VOA Programs Special projects Day in Photos VOA News on Iran VOA News on China 52 Documentary Videos More From VOA VOAAfrica.com Programs VOA Learning English Editorials About this site Terms of Use & Privacy Notice About VOA Get VOA+ VOA Around the World Contact VOA Media Relations Usage Requests VOA Pronunciation Guide XS SM MD LG