Free NHS meningitis jab available for some teenagers - what you need to know - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Health Starting uni? What to know about the free NHS meningitis B jab in England Image source, Getty Images By Michelle Roberts Digital health editor Published 13 July 2026 Updated 3 August 2026 A million young people are being offered a free meningitis B vaccine. It comes after concerns over the UK's largest and fastest growing outbreak that happened in Kent earlier this year. Nearly 90,000 doses of the vaccine have already been given, with 135,000 more booked in for the coming weeks. So who needs the vaccine, what's in it and where can you get it for free? What's the vaccine and is it safe? The vaccine offers protection against a dangerous strain of meningitis called meningitis B (MenB) that caused the outbreak in Kent. The vaccine does not contain any live bacteria and cannot cause meningitis. It is common to get some swelling, redness or tenderness where you have the injection. You may also get a mild fever, nausea, headache or muscle aches but these symptoms should disappear after one or two days. More serious side effects are rare. How can I book? Bookings can be made at high street pharmacies across England. Seventeen and 18-year-olds can book via the NHS National Booking Service , external if they are already registered with a GP , external . Other students under the age of 25 who are heading to a residential college or university this autumn for the first time can also contact a participating pharmacy. You can get a walk-in MenB vaccine at a pharmacy if you were born on or after 21 July 2001, and for the first time this autumn you are: starting university starting at a further education college as a residential student International students and students from elsewhere in the UK (Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man) who will be studying in England are also eligible, as well as those who are travelling abroad to study. You do not need to be registered with a GP surgery to use the walk-in service. Find a participating pharmacy here , external . Who can get the MenB vaccine? The vaccine, given as two doses and at least 28 days apart, is being offered to 17 and 18-year-olds in sixth form and students under the age of 25 who are heading to a residential college or university this autumn for the first time. Both doses are needed for the fullest protection. A million young people are expected to be eligible for the vaccine in England, including: people born between 1 September 2007 and 31 August 2008 people born on or after 21 July 2001 and starting university for the first time this autumn people born on or after 21 July 2001 who are starting at residential further education colleges for the first time this autumn Image source, Getty Images Why are students advised to get the vaccine? The meningitis outbreak that happened in Kent in March has been described as unprecedented and explosive. Within weeks, in Kent, there were 29 confirmed or suspected cases and two deaths. That's why the new, one-off campaign is being launched - to help protect those at greatest risk and hopefully prevent something like this from happening again. Students in their first year of university have a risk that is about seven times higher than that of young people of a similar age who do not go to university, says NHS England. Meningitis infections can be spread through close contact - for example through kissing, sharing vapes and drinks or living in close quarters with a person with the bug. UK health officials say the risk to 18-year-olds or those entering university or a residential college for the first time is higher because of increased mixing of social groups and shared accommodation. How dangerous is MenB? MenB infection can cause serious, life-threatening problems including inflammation of the lining of the brain (meningitis) and blood poisoning (sepsis). It can lead to life-changing disabilities such as amputations, hearing loss and brain damage, and in some cases can be fatal. Vaccination can save lives. Why not all teens? The MenB vaccine was added to the UK NHS childhood immunisation programme for babies born on or after 1 July 2015. All babies are now offered it. But it means teenagers and young adults over the age of 11 have not received this jab. Young babies are vaccinated because they are more likely to get invasive infections more often than other age groups, and their bodies are less likely to be able to fight them off. However, research suggests the MenB vaccine doesn't necessarily prevent transmission of the infection from person to person, doesn't target all the different B bacteria strains and doesn't provide long-term protection. But UK vaccine experts now say government should consider routinely offering the vaccine to all teenagers at around age 15 . It will be up to ministers in each nation to decide whether to do this. Meanwhile, they do want everyone who is eligible to come forward and get the vaccine because it can prevent serious illness. Around 10,000 people in the Kent region will have already received jabs, as part of the response to the March outbreak. What about the rest of the UK? Each nation has its own plans , external , but all are offering the vaccine to most pupils completing Year 13 or S6 in the summer of 2026 - irrespective of their education plans and including people from this age group who are not currently in school. Young people aged 18-25 starting university or moving into residential further education settings for the first time in autumn 2026 are also eligible. In Wales, those aged 17-18 will receive a letter invite, while those aged 18-25 who are entering higher education will need to contact their health board later in July. What about other types of meningitis? Meningitis can be caused by many different types of viruses or bacteria, which are spread through close contact with a person who has them. Viral meningitis tends to get better on its own within seven to 10 days. It can often be treated at home with plenty of rest, painkillers and anti-sickness medicine. Bacterial meningitis needs to be treated in hospital. Outbreaks are thankfully rare. Currently, a separate vaccine covering different strains, the MenACWY vaccine, is offered routinely to 14-year-olds. Get in touch Do you have any views, comments or questions about this story? Contact form Contact form What are the symptoms of meningitis and how is it spread? Published 16 July Get our flagship newsletter with all the headlines you need to start the day. Sign up here. Related topics Health Meningitis Vaccination The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:34 Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents. 00:00:34, play video Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents 1:05 What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident. 00:01:05, play video What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident 0:29 How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 00:00:29, play video How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 1:27 Are older and younger generations in conflict? 00:01:27, play video Are older and younger generations in conflict? 1:18 Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 00:01:18, play video Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 0:48 Model's photos used to catfish women. 00:00:48, play video Model's photos used to catfish women 1:29 The inventor who refused to take no for an answer. 00:01:29, play video The inventor who refused to take no for an answer 1:07 How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 00:01:07, play video How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 1:01 E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths. 00:01:01, play video E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths 1:07 NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England. 00:01:07, play video NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England 0:52 Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion. 00:00:52, play video Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion 0:59 Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation. 00:00:59, play video Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation 0:35 Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend. 00:00:35, play video Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend 1:25 Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings. 00:01:25, play video Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings 0:55 Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 00:00:55, play video Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 0:48 Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances. 00:00:48, play video Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances 1:16 GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview. 00:01:16, play video GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview 1:07 What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 00:01:07, play video What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 0:58 '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 00:00:58, play video '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 0:29 Where does salmonella get its name? 00:00:29, play video Where does salmonella get its name? Top stories Live . Rescue efforts enter fifth day on Nepal-Tibet border with more than 2,400 missing after flash flood 1122 viewing 1.1k viewing At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot Published 3 hours ago Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor Published 7 hours ago More to explore Dolly Parton's dad couldn't read - it inspired her to send books to millions of children Sweetcorn ice creams and pastries: The latest 'swavoury' trend taking over your feed How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works We helped create UK emergency alert system - but question how government is using it Hypermobility - the little-known 'bendy disease' that causes pain and fatigue Strong winds and thunderstorms kick off the bank holiday weekend 'I thought diet clubs weren't for men' Embroidery on display as town celebrates conqueror Royal Watch: Get the latest royal stories and analysis with Sean Coughlan’s weekly newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Low-key noughties sitcom starring Robert Webb and Paula Wilcox Keith Richards recalls how he wrote the iconic 'Satisfaction' An unlikely gang set out to catch a killer who shattered rural peace Did Emily ruin Paris? Most read 1 Rescue to continue overnight for 'in distress' vessel carrying five in the Channel 2 Sarah Ferguson expected back in the UK 'shortly', source says 3 Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor 4 I've been to Gamescom six times - here's what excited me this year 5 'Healey eyes banks and oil tax' and 'X Factor comeback' 6 Norway's new king remembers 'my dear father' in first speech 7 How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works 8 They fell in love - then had to check they weren't brother and sister 9 Man dies after train hits van on crossing 10 At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.