EasyJet agrees to £5.7bn takeover by US firm - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Business New Tech Economy Artificial Intelligence Technology of Business Africa Business Paths to Success EasyJet agrees to £5.7bn takeover by US firm Image source, Getty Images By Nick Edser & Faarea Masud Business reporters Published 6 August 2026, 15:21 BST Updated 5 hours ago No-frills airline EasyJet has agreed to be taken over in a £5.7bn deal by US firm Apollo after a rival bidder dropped out. The takeover was agreed after US investment firm Castlelake, which had made a series of offers for the carrier, said it was withdrawing from the bid battle. Apollo said it wants to help the airline grow and that it does not intend to cut any jobs in the first 12 months after the takeover has been completed, implying that passengers can expect largely the same service. EasyJet is one of Europe's largest airlines. It employs more than 19,000 people, and flies around 1,200 routes across 35 European countries. It was founded by Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou in 1995 to offer cheap air fares to Europe from the UK. Its first flights took off in November 1995 flying from Luton to Glasgow and Edinburgh, with its first international flights the following year. Sir Stelios and his family still own around 15% of the business, and he said he supported Apollo's plans for the airline "to create more growth". "My family and I intend to remain invested as long-term major shareholders of EasyJet for the next chapter in the company's journey," he said in a statement. The future ownership of EasyJet has been uncertain since it emerged in late May that Castlelake was considering a bid for the airline. Castlelake made a number of approaches for EasyJet, which were rebuffed initially after the carrier accused the US firm of trying to buy it "on the cheap". In early July, EasyJet and Castlelake said they had agreed a deal in principle , but then Apollo - which owns Wagamama parent The Restaurant Group - swooped in with a higher bid. Under the offer from Apollo, EasyJet shareholders will receive £7.15 per share. AJ Bell's head of financial analysis, Danni Hewson said while the offer was significantly above where the company's shares were trading before the Iran war, the figure was "still woefully short of the company's pre-pandemic highs". Apollo said it was "highly supportive" of the airline's existing strategy, adding there was "a significant opportunity to accelerate the operational and commercial ambitions" for the EasyJet Group. "EasyJet is a leader in European aviation, having built a differentiated market position through its compelling customer proposition, expansive network and strong brand," said Alex van Hoek, partner and European private equity lead at Apollo. EasyJet chief executive Kenton Jarvis said "We welcome Apollo's commitment to our business and our people, and believe that its experience in the aviation sector makes it a strong partner for EasyJet." The deal will still need to win approval from regulators, including in the EU where rules mean EasyJet's owners will have to be majority EU-based. Apollo anticipates this can be achieved by making the Haji-Ioannou family, and other EU-based shareholders, owners of around half of the business. Apollo said though it does not intend to cut any staff for at least 12 months after the deal goes through, if the deal completes and EasyJet delists from the stock exchange to become a private company, some jobs related to maintaining its public-listed operations could go. The firm said that would be a "limited number of roles in specific areas." AJ Bell's Hewson said the potential loss of another well-known name from London markets will be seen as a blow. "Air travel might not be as sexy as space travel, but retail investors understand it and names like EasyJet can't easily be replaced," she said. Related topics Easyjet More on this story EasyJet agrees to surprise takeover bid as rival US firm swoops in Published 10 July The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens 1:03 Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show. 00:01:03, play video Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show 0:58 Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:58 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns. 00:00:58, play video Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:19 England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations. 00:01:19, play video England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya Top stories Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption Published 17 minutes ago Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases Published 8 hours ago Uefa says boycott may still go ahead as FA withdraws Infantino support Published 5 hours ago More to explore The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Steve the featherless parrot gets his colour back Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives Why aren't more women getting into padel? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 Arrests in Thetford as disorder continues for third night 2 Artificial Intelligence used to design brand new viruses 3 Met Police boss admits mistake over plagiarism row 4 Amanda Knox defends Fringe comedy show after claims it will 'trivialise violence' 5 South Korea space agency shares Moon images after SpaceX rocket debris crash 6 Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order 7 Former duke chased by alleged stalker, court hears 8 Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption 9 Boxer charged with killing aid worker in Athens after his wife gave police 'key' details 10 Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.