SK Hynix to invest $38 billion building new memory chip plants Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech SK Hynix to invest $38 billion building new memory chip plants as demand soars Published Fri, Aug 7 2026 4:40 AM EDT Updated Fri, Aug 7 2026 5:02 AM EDT Arjun Kharpal @/in/arjunkharpal/ @ArjunKharpal WATCH LIVE Key Points SK Hynix on Friday said it will invest 54 trillion Korean won ($38.1 billion) to build two new memory chip manufacturing plants. Memory prices have surged because of short supply and huge demand with investors watching closely for any changes to the supply-demand imbalance. SK Hynix said one plant would be located in Yongin called "Y2" and another in Cheongju called "M17." In this article SKHY SKHY Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT SK Hynix Inc. signage at the company's office in Seongnam, South Korea, on Tuesday, June 30, 2026. SeongJoon Cho | Bloomberg | Getty Images SK Hynix said on Friday it will invest 54 trillion Korean won ($38.1 billion) to build two new memory chip manufacturing plants, as demand for the components, which are key to AI, continues to grow. The South Korean tech giant announced a 35.2 trillion won investment in a fabrication plant, or fab, in Yongin called "Y2," with 19.1 trillion won earmarked for a facility in Cheongju called "M17." It comes amid a surge in memory prices driven by a shortage of supply and huge demand from companies building AI infrastructure like data centers and chip firms such as Nvidia, which require large amounts of high-bandwidth memory (HBM). The surge in memory prices has led to the biggest producers of the product — SK Hynix, Samsung and Micron — seeing a massive rally in their share prices as investors bet the supply imbalance will persist for some time. SK Hynix is facing increasing competition from Samsung, which has reclaimed the number one spot by market share in the dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, market in the second quarter, according to Counterpoint Research. DRAM is a type of memory that is in particularly high demand. "This has prompted SK Hynix to inject fresh capex to expand its footprint. In the near term, this won't alter SK Hynix's output but is built for 2029 and beyond," Neil Shah, vice president of research and co-founder of Counterpoint Research, told CNBC. "Looking at the broader market, multi-vendor expansions from Samsung, SK Hynix, Micron, and CXMT will expand global supply significantly through 2028. Yet with demand growing even faster than planned capacity, memory prices are unlikely to soften before the end of 2028." SK Hynix's plans Yongin Y2 is the second of four fabs SK Hynix has planned in the Yongin Semiconductor Cluster. The company said it will serve as a production base for DRAM. SK Hynix will break ground on construction in July 2027, with the opening of its first cleanroom in June 2029 to produce HBM and other next-generation DRAM products. A cleanroom is a controlled environment, which is key for chip manufacturing. SK Hynix said the Cheongju facility will produce NAND memory, a product for which "demand is surging rapidly," according to the company. The Cheongju M17 fab will break ground in February 2027 with the first cleanroom opening in December 2028. "In the AI era, technological competitiveness alone is not enough and the ability to supply the required volume at the exact moment customers need it is the ultimate competitive advantage," SK Hynix said in a press release. "We reached this investment decision after a thorough review of market demand." The investments form the next tranche of the company's "master plan," announced last year, which will see SK Hynix invest 600 trillion won in the Yongin Semiconductor Cluster and 100 trillion won to expand its Cheongju production base. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by