Sen. Mitch McConnell discharged from rehab center following hospitalization in mid-June IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Politics U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Congress Sen. Mitch McConnell discharged from rehab center following hospitalization in mid-June The Republican senator said he would continue to work from home and didn’t provide a timeline for his Senate return. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Add NBC News to Google Sen. Mitch McConnell says he's out of rehab and recovering at home 02:53 Get more news on Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 6, 2026, 2:55 PM EDT / Updated Aug. 6, 2026, 3:12 PM EDT By Rebecca Shabad Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said Thursday that he has been discharged from a rehabilitation center where he was recovering from a fall he suffered in mid-June. “Earlier today, I was discharged from the rehabilitation center to continue my recovery at home. Elaine and I are grateful for the many well wishes and support from friends, colleagues, and Kentuckians, and for the attentive care I’ve received from excellent doctors, nurses, therapists, and hospital staff,” McConnell said in a statement. McConnell, 84, said he would continue to work from home, and he did not provide a timeline for his return to the Senate, which is expected to begin a five-week recess in the coming days. Uncertainty surrounding McConnell’s health has swirled for weeks following his June 14 hospitalization, after which he had not been seen in public. His staff has repeatedly refused to answer questions about his condition, prompting calls for transparency from some critics, including Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear . Police scanner audio NBC News obtained last month indicated that paramedics conducted CPR on a person experiencing a “cardiac arrest” at McConnell’s address. In a statement last month, he said he had been hospitalized after he was “briefly unconscious” following a fall. “My doctors have confirmed that I didn’t break any bones or suffer a concussion,” he said July 12. “I didn’t have a heart attack or a stroke. I don’t have any tumors or hemorrhages. But I was briefly unconscious and was taken to the hospital. While receiving excellent care over the past several weeks, I’ve also had to deal with a mild case of pneumonia.” Since his hospitalization, McConnell has missed 51 Senate floor votes and is expected to miss the vote to confirm Todd Blanche for attorney general if it takes place this week. McConnell, who has also suffered a number of health issues over the years, is retiring at the end of his term in January. In February, McConnell was hospitalized for a week with “flu-like symptoms.” In 2023, he was hospitalized for a concussion he sustained when he tripped at a hotel , and the same year, he had several episodes of freezing in the middle of speaking , which were caught on camera and raised concerns about his mental fitness for office. He also fractured a shoulder in 2019 when he fell at his home in Kentucky. McConnell is one of the oldest members of the Senate after Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, and Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., who are 92 and 84, respectively. Share Add NBC News to Google Rebecca Shabad Rebecca Shabad is a politics reporter for NBC News based in Washington. About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC