Job cuts plunge to a 2-year low despite AI fears, economic shocks - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Cyberattacks World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds MoneyWatch | Managing Your Money CBS News Price Tracker Watch CBS News MoneyWatch Job cuts plunge to a 2-year low despite AI fears, economic shocks By Mary Cunningham Mary Cunningham Reporter, MoneyWatch Mary Cunningham is a reporter for CBS MoneyWatch. She previously worked at "60 Minutes," CBSNews.com and CBS News 24/7 as part of the CBS News Associate Program. Read Full Bio Mary Cunningham Updated on: August 6, 2026 / 11:24 AM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Layoffs across the U.S. in July fell to their lowest level in two years, new data shows, a sign that the labor market remains resilient despite the impact of inflation driven by the Iran war and artificial intelligence. Employers announced 33,429 job cuts in July, down 46% from a year ago, according to outplacement firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas. The number of layoffs last month was the lowest since July 2024, when roughly 26,000 cuts were announced. A decrease in the number of Americans filing for weekly unemployment benefits also indicates a low level of layoffs. The four-week average of initial jobless claims is now below 200,000 for the first time since October 2022, according to PNC Economics Research. "The pace of layoffs fell dramatically this summer," Andy Challenger, workplace expert and chief revenue officer for Challenger, Gray & Christmas, said in a statement. "Layoff plans continue to be announced primarily in tech, and artificial intelligence is still the story, as investments in the technology reshape organizations." According to Challenger, AI has been the leading cause of layoffs for five straight months, accounting for 33% of job cuts in July. But AI-related layoffs remain mostly concentrated in the technology industry, economists note . "Recently laid-off workers are finding jobs as fast as the economy is creating new ones," Carl Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics, said in a research note. "That suggests the labor market is still balanced." While employers have refrained from firing, hiring remains modest. Government labor data shows that the number of job openings across the country is steady but still below its pre-pandemic level. The Labor Department on Friday is scheduled to release hiring data for July. Economists polled by FactSet forecast a payroll gain of 97,500. Employers added only 57,000 jobs in June , weaker than forecasters expected. Although the nation's unemployment rate is low by historical standards, at 4.2%, some groups report difficulty finding jobs. Amid increasing corporate investment in AI, job listings for entry-level corporate roles traditionally available to recent college graduates have fallen 15% , according to career platform Handshake. Meanwhile, the number of applications per job has surged 30%. Edited by Alain Sherter More from CBS News How to negotiate a lower home price in today's economy, according to experts What's a good CD interest rate this August? More adult children live at home now than during the pandemic How much interest will a $20,000 1-year CD earn if opened this August? Go deeper with The Free Press Niall Ferguson: AI Is the Most Dangerous Arms Race in History Arthur Brooks: It’s 2028. AI Has Made You Much Happier. In: Employment Bureau of Labor Statistics © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Help wanted: The difficulties facing job applicants Help wanted: The difficulties facing job applicants 07:47 Help wanted: The difficulties facing job applicants (07:47) How to negotiate a lower home price in today's economy, according to experts What's a good CD interest rate this August? More adult children live at home now than during the pandemic Niall Ferguson: AI Is the Most Dangerous Arms Race in History Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue