Mike Lindell stepping down as MyPillow CEO to focus on Minnesota governor's race - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Spokane Wildfires World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War Spokane Wildfires World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Local News Mike Lindell stepping down as MyPillow CEO to focus on Minnesota governor's race By WCCO Staff , Riley Moser Riley Moser Digital Producer, CBS Minnesota Riley Moser is a digital producer who covers breaking news and feature stories for CBS Minnesota. Riley started her career at CBS Minnesota in June 2022 and earned an honorable mention for sports writing from the Iowa College Media Association the same year. Read Full Bio Riley Moser Updated on: August 4, 2026 / 3:50 PM EDT / CBS Minnesota Add CBS News on Google Mike Lindell is stepping down as CEO of MyPillow to focus on his campaign for governor of Minnesota, the company announced Tuesday. Lindell, who founded MyPillow in 2004, also reduced his ownership stake in the company to a minority. He will remain a member of MyPillow's Board of Directors. "After 22 years of leading MyPillow, I know the company is ready for its next chapter and I know Minnesota cannot wait," Lindell said. "This decision is not about walking away. It is about stepping forward to serve. I am putting Minnesota above myself, my title, and my business interests so I can give this campaign and the people of our state my full time, energy, and attention." James Furlong, who served as MyPillow's director from 2004 to 2019, will take over as CEO. The announcement comes as the Republican Party of Minnesota has asked Secretary of State Steve Simon to clarify constitutional residency rules for gubernatorial candidates, citing concern over Lindell's domicile status . Lindell, in response to the GOP, told WCCO, "It's a lie. It's a hit job. He wants his darling, Lisa Demuth. That's who he wants, who they had handpicked by Alex." The former MyPillow CEO has also been accused of violating campaign laws by giving away pillows promoting his candidacy at a July Fourth parade. Lindell was already the leading Republican candidate, according to a SurveyUSA/KSTP poll, when he earned an endorsement from President Trump last month. Kendall Qualls , who earned the state party's endorsement, and Minnesota House Speaker Lisa Demuth are also vying for the Republican nomination. Early voting is underway for the Aug. 11 primary. Whoever wins the GOP nomination is likely to face Sen. Amy Klobuchar, the presumptive favorite for the Democratic candidacy, in the November election. This is a developing story and will be updated. 2026 Midterm Elections More Behind closed doors, Trump, White House aides hope Rep. Max Miller exits race Senate candidate Haley Stevens stands firm on backing U.S. military aid to Israel What to know about primaries in 5 states today: Michigan, Virginia and more Trump raises concerns in call with Rep. Max Miller amid abuse allegations Senate candidate El-Sayed questions assumption Michigan voters are moderates Go deeper with The Free Press This CEO ‘Never Gave a Penny to Trump’ and Still Got a Pardon How Minnesota Became the Center of Everything In: Mike Lindell © 2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. Minnesota GOP raises concerns over Mike Lindell’s residency, and more headlines Minnesota GOP raises concerns over Mike Lindell’s residency, and more headlines 06:24 Minnesota GOP raises concerns over Mike Lindell’s residency, and more headlines (06:24) Hugging Face CEO calls hack by rogue OpenAI model "very weird and unprecedented" House Ethics probing Rep. Max Miller for alleged domestic violence, drug use Ariana Grande pulls out of musical over "endless, ongoing public scrutiny" This CEO ‘Never Gave a Penny to Trump’ and Still Got a Pardon Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest MLB Trade Deadline Predictions NFL Overrated QBs Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue