Calls for Army college inquiry after reports of rape and abuse - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat UK England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Isle of Man Guernsey Jersey Local News Calls for inquiry into Army teen college after reports of rape and abuse Image source, Getty Images By Charlotte Hadfield and Sima Kotecha , Senior UK correspondent Published 6 August 2026, 13:51 BST Updated 4 hours ago Warning: This article contains sexual language and details of sexual assault Calls are growing for an independent inquiry into an Army training college for teenagers following allegations of rape and sexual abuse against female recruits. Four young women told the BBC they were sexually assaulted and harassed while attending the Army Foundation College (AFC) at Harrogate in North Yorkshire. They described a culture of misogyny and sexual violence at the college, which they all attended when they were 17. Sarah Atherton, former MP for Wrexham, told the BBC that public confidence in the college could "only be restored through an independent inquiry". Emma Lewell MP said: "If this was any other school or residential environment for children, it would have been closed down." Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at Army teen college Published 17 hours ago Meanwhile, two Lib Dem MPs have written to Defence Secretary Wes Streeting calling for an independent inquiry into the "culture, leadership and safeguarding practices" at the college. Atherton, who previously served in the Army's Intelligence Corps, led a 2021 government review into the experiences of women in the armed forces. The review, which took evidence from over 4,200 women, reported cases of rape, sexual exploitation of under 18s, and women being drugged before being assaulted. It concluded that women were being "denied justice" by a "woefully inadequate" military complaints process. Speaking to the BBC on Thursday, Atherton said: "Concerns at AFC Harrogate were raised years ago, and subsequent data and complaints suggest the problems continued without adequate action". An independent inquiry, she said, was "the best way to establish the facts, restore public confidence and ensure the Army can recruit and retain the talented young people it needs". "Parents, staff and recruits deserve clear answers, accountability where necessary, and confidence that every possible lesson has been learned," she added. Image caption, AFC is the largest military training establishment for under-18s in the UK Lewell, who sits on the Defence Committee, said: "I think as a matter of urgency there should be an independent inquiry into the college led by someone with significant safeguarding experience, and they need to be able to speak to the children there. "There's been an ongoing complaints for a long time now around sexual assault, bullying, sexual abuse and physical abuse so it's a matter of urgency." The letter to the defence secretary from the Lib Dems MPs was written by Tom Gordon, who represents Harrogate and Knaresborough, and James MacCleary, the party's defence spokesman. They said "it is essential that the full facts are established openly and that meaningful action is taken to restore confidence". "Such an inquiry should examine not only the specific allegations that have emerged, but also whether there are systemic barriers preventing victims from coming forward, whether existing reporting mechanisms are fit for purpose, and whether appropriate safeguarding arrangements are consistently being implemented," they add. The Child Rights International Network, a human rights organisation, said it had been involved in documenting allegations at the college, adding the case for an independent inquiry was "urgent and essential". The Army said "unacceptable and criminal behaviour has absolutely no place in our Armed Forces" as it called for victims and witnesses of criminal behaviour at the college to come forward. It said several reforms had been introduced to support victims, including the Defence Serious Crime Command providing specialist support through the justice process - outside of the Army chain of command. AFC is the largest military training establishment for under-19s in the UK and it receives all the Army's 16-year-old recruits. North Yorkshire Police told the BBC in a response to a Freedom of Information Act request it had received 16 reports of sexual offences linked to the college in the year to June, including allegations of exposure, voyeurism and sexual assault. No information was included on whether the reports had led to prosecutions. A total of 176 complaints of inappropriate sexual behaviour at the college were made between January 2018 and June 2025, according to Ministry of Defence (MoD) data. Image caption, "He stood against the door so I couldn't get out," Monica tells Sima Kotecha The women, whose names have been changed to protect their identities, all attended AFC over the last five years. One woman, Tilly, told the BBC she was 17 when she was raped at AFC by several fellow soldiers who invited her into their room. "They started taking my clothes off and then this led to them doing stuff I didn't consent to. "And then I was raped… by multiple junior soldiers, same age as me. It went on for hours. I felt like a piece of meat." Another woman's story was shared with the BBC by her mother, who said her daughter Amy was sexually assaulted and subjected to almost daily sexual harassment during her training. Because the lock to Amy's room was not working, her mother said "she found herself sleeping across the door to stop male soldiers coming in". Another woman, who said she was sexually assaulted and harassed at AFC, described how misogynistic attitudes and behaviour of AFC staff rubbed off on some of the male teenagers. She recalled one of the instructors saying: "It's all about the pussy and how much of it you can get." The MoD told the BBC that the college "welcomes external scrutiny and challenge". It said that AFC had in the last year "hosted the safeguarding bodies, parliamentarians, the Children's Commissioner's office and the Armed Forces Commissioner, as well as receiving an outstanding report from Ofsted". Ashleigh Percival-Borley, a veteran who served for 13 years in the British Army as a sergeant and multi-disciplinary instructor, said "incidents like this have "really taken my confidence out of the institution and that makes me really sad". She told BBC Radio 4's Today programme there was a "level of frustration" from women who wanted to serve in the army. She said hearing the allegations "sickened" her as a female veteran as well as a former instructor who knew "the embodiment of the army's values and standards" needed for the role. The Children's Commissioner for England Dame Rachel de Souza said she would ensure the "appalling attacks" were investigated and "those responsible, including for failing to safeguard these girls, are held to account". She said all children living away from home had a right to contact her team for support, and that she would make sure all girls at AFC could do so. Image source, PA Media Image caption, Gunner Jaysley Beck, who was not at AFC, was found dead five months after a 43-year-old officer pinned her down and tried to kiss her An MoD report last year found that 67% of women in the armed forces had experienced at least one sexualised behaviour in the previous 12 months, compared to 34% of men. Last year, an ex-army sergeant major was jailed for six months for sexually assaulting a 19-year-old soldier, who later took her own life. Warrant Officer Michael Webber, 43, pinned down Royal Artillery Gunner Jaysley Beck and tried to kiss her in July 2021. She was found dead five months later in her barracks at Larkhill, Wiltshire. The inquest into her death ruled the sexual assault and the Army's failure to take appropriate action "more than minimally" contributed to her taking her life. Jaysley's mother, Leighann McCready, told BBC Breakfast Jaysley was 19 when she reported what happened to her chain of command, but she was "disbelieved" and branded "a female trouble maker". "This is the problem that soldiers are facing - what they are going to be branded afterwards," her mother said. "If a junior solider can follow their policies and procedures then those above should do exactly the same. Had they had done, I believe our daughter would have still been alive", she added. AFC remains committed to creating a professional, supportive, and safe environment for all recruits, the Army said. It added: "Any suggestion otherwise contradicts the values of respect and inclusivity that we stand for." If you have more information about this story, you can reach Sima by email at Sima.Kotecha@bbc.co.uk Related topics British Army British Armed Forces The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens 1:03 Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show. 00:01:03, play video Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show 0:58 Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:58 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns. 00:00:58, play video Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:19 England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations. 00:01:19, play video England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya Top stories Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption Published 21 minutes ago Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases Published 8 hours ago Uefa says boycott may still go ahead as FA withdraws Infantino support Published 5 hours ago More to explore The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Steve the featherless parrot gets his colour back Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives Why aren't more women getting into padel? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 Arrests in Thetford as disorder continues for third night 2 Artificial Intelligence used to design brand new viruses 3 Met Police boss admits mistake over plagiarism row 4 Amanda Knox defends Fringe comedy show after claims it will 'trivialise violence' 5 South Korea space agency shares Moon images after SpaceX rocket debris crash 6 Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order 7 Former duke chased by alleged stalker, court hears 8 Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption 9 Boxer charged with killing aid worker in Athens after his wife gave police 'key' details 10 Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.