Why Michigan voters are hearing 'communist' as they vote Tuesday Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Politics & Policy Why Michigan voters are hearing 'communist' as they vote Tuesday Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 7:00 AM EDT Updated Tue, Aug 4 2026 10:16 AM EDT Garrett Downs @in/garrettmdowns/ @_garrettdowns WATCH LIVE Key Points President Donald Trump and Republicans have a new favorite term for their opponents on the left: Communists. Trump and his Republican allies are ratcheting up attacks on so-called communists in the wake of progressive Democrats winning elections across the country. Trump referred to the candidates in the Michigan Democratic Senate primary as "a communist versus a socialist." The messaging is intended to sway the crucial midterm election in which Republicans are seeking to retain control of Congress. US President Donald Trump speaks at Wheeler High School, in Marietta, Georgia, on July 22, 2026. Saul Loeb | AFP | Getty Images President Donald Trump and Republicans have a new favorite term for their opponents on the left: Communists . Trump has been trying to stitch Democrats to communism, the economic philosophy championed by Karl Marx and the bane of the U.S. during the Cold War era. Republicans led by Wisconsin Sen. Joseph McCarthy previously used the moniker to great political effect during the Red Scare in the early 1950s. And the strategy has been employed in more recent elections as well. But the rate at which Trump and his Republican allies are crying "communist" has ratcheted up dramatically in the wake of progressive Democrats winning elections across the country following New York City Mayor Zohran Mamdani 's victory last year. Democrats in Michigan will have another opportunity on Tuesday to nominate a progressive candidate as Abdul El-Sayed faces off against the more establishment Rep. Haley Stevens, D-Mich., to become the party's nominee for an open Senate seat. While El-Sayed rejects the Democratic socialist label, Trump called him a communist as recently as Monday. In a July 28 endorsement video , Trump said Wisconsin Republican congressional candidate Michael Alfonso "will stand up to the radical left communists in Congress." On July 22, in a speech in Georgia, Trump said, "We have some great candidates running, they got to win by a lot; otherwise we're going communist." In a July 3 speech in front of Mount Rushmore, the president said the "communist menace" is a "mortal threat." In his Independence Day speech, he vowed that the U.S. "will never be a communist country." At stake is the balance of power in Washington, where Trump and Republicans have controlled all chambers of government since the beginning of his second term. Republicans see Democrats lurching to the left and embracing socialism as an opening to link their opponents to the far more radical communism. Trump is not alone in slapping on the communist label. Republican House Speaker Mike Johnson , of Louisiana, said during a news conference that the midterm election is a contest over "whether we're going to maintain our status as a constitutional republic or we're going to trade that in, dismantle the foundations and go down this dark road of death to communism." "These crazy little mini-Mamdanis who are popping up all around the country, they are a danger to you and your family. This is not a game," he said. And Rep. Lisa McClain, R-Mich., the House Republican Caucus chair, was similarly direct when speaking at a news conference about the midterm election . "This is a choice between freedom and tyrannical government control, between the American dream and the failed nightmare of communism," she said, speaking about the new crop of Democratic candidates. "These are all people who hate our country and everything that our country stands for." Read more CNBC politics coverage ChatGPT dominates early AI spending in Congress as lawmakers weigh regulation Trump slams Pirro after she moves to drop Reflecting Pool vandalism case Analysis: Markets heard a dovish Warsh. Fed chairman's words suggest a rate hike The rhetoric comes as Democrats shift to the left in primary elections around the country, nominating Democratic socialist candidates in the mold of Sen. Bernie Sanders , I-Vt., who argue for a more muscular federal government that delivers more benefits. Progressive Democrats have catalyzed voters on affordability , pledging to tax the wealthiest Americans more to pay for universal healthcare , a higher minimum wage and a universal basic income . "We're using their own words and their own platform. I don't think it's really much of a stretch to make the connection from socialism to communism," said one GOP operative involved in the effort, granted anonymity to speak to the party's strategy. "It's kind of a wake-up call for Republican voters to help turn out the base and say exactly what we're running against." Indeed, Democrats have recently nominated candidates who have toyed with communism in the past. Democratic socialist Darializa Avila Chevalier, who took down Rep. Adriano Espaillat, D-N.Y., in a Democratic primary in June, maintained a since-deleted Twitter account on the platform now known as X. There she included calls to "seize the means of production" and a quip that the now-candidate wiped her hands on an American flag. Trump seized on the latter tweet in a recent interview with CNBC . Chevalier has since told MS NOW that she is not a communist. She called the focus on her past commentary a "distraction." Democrats say the "communist" tag won't work on many of their less-headline-grabbing candidates. A senior Democratic campaign operative, who was granted anonymity to discuss the party's response, pointed to candidates like JoAnna Mendoza, a retired Marine drill instructor running against Republican Rep. Juan Ciscomani in Arizona. Or Rep. Tom Suozzi, D-N.Y., a Long Island moderate Democrat who has repeatedly won in a purple district. In a statement to CNBC, Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee Chair Rep. Suzan DelBene, D-Wash., said Republicans are "resorting to desperate attacks that aren't actually about the pocketbook issues, but just baseless spin that falls flat with voters who are eager to reject Republicans." Some Democrats are even goading Republicans to bring it on when it comes to the communist messaging. Rep. Mark Pocan, D-Wis. during the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government hearing on the budget of the Office of Management and Budget in Rayburn building on Wednesday, June 4, 2025. Tom Williams | CQ-Roll Call, Inc. | Getty Images "I think if Donald Trump said that we were all bananas, they would call us bananas," said Rep. Mark Pocan, D-Wis., a former chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. "They couldn't make it work on socialists, so they tried to go to communists." Pocan suggested he doesn't think the communist tag will be persuasive to voters, either. "If that's the best they got, I'm looking forward to a nice big majority in November, so keep it up," he said. Rep. Ro Khanna, D-Calif., who has endorsed a wide swath of progressives this election season, told CNBC that history also suggests the strategy will not be effective. "They tried to do it to FDR four times," he said, referring to Republican backlash to President Franklin Delano Roosevelt 's New Deal programs like Social Security. "Voters are smart," he added. Polling suggests deriding Democrats as socialists also won't be effective come the November election. The latest CNBC All America Economic Survey released in July found that 32% of registered voters would be more likely to vote for a candidate if they describe themselves as a Democratic socialist , while 29% of voters would be more likely to vote for a candidate with Trump's endorsement. Even fewer, 27% of voters, said a candidate who describes themselves as a member of the MAGA movement would make them more likely to vote for them. That comes as Trump's approval rating on the economy sags to 38%, with 60% of voters disapproving. Democrats also hold a 4-point lead in the generic congressional ballot in the poll. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by