‘Our new champion’: Philippines swept up in tennis fever after Alex Eala’s historic win | Philippines | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 3 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Alexandra Eala of the Philippines after beating Jessica Pegula at the Washington DC Open tennis tournament. Photograph: Will Oliver/EPA View image in fullscreen Alexandra Eala of the Philippines after beating Jessica Pegula at the Washington DC Open tennis tournament. Photograph: Will Oliver/EPA Philippines ‘Our new champion’: Philippines swept up in tennis fever after Alex Eala’s historic win WTA event win earns 21-year-old a presidential reception in the Philippines as interest in tennis surges in home country Natasha May in Bangkok Tue 4 Aug 2026 22.10 EDT Last modified on Wed 5 Aug 2026 21.31 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google The Philippines has been swept up in tennis fever after 21-year-old rising star Alex Eala delivered a historic win, drawing praise from the president who hosted a reception in her honour. On Monday, Eala became the first player from the Philippines to win a Women’s Tennis Association (WTA) Tour-level singles title. Philippines president Ferdinand Marcos released a message on social media on Tuesday congratulating Eala on “yet another historic achievement”, adding: “You continue to redefine what is possible for Philippine tennis and inspire countless young Filipinos to dream without limits.” Eala not only beat the top-ranked player, Jessica Pegula, to win the title in Washington DC, but also did so coming back from behind in a match spread over two days due to rain delays. Pegula said after the match: “This is the best Monday final crowd I’ve seen ... To all the Filipino fans that came out, and have supported, you guys are helping to grow tennis around the world, and I appreciate that. Being a female athlete, being in tennis, we love to see that growth.” Signs in the stadium during the match expressed what Eala means to the country, including one reading: “Alex you make us proud to be Filipino”. View image in fullscreen Alexandra Eala poses with her trophy after beating Jessica Pegula. Photograph: Will Oliver/EPA Filipinos had already been celebrating Eala’s historic run at Wimbledon in July, going farther than any Filipino woman at a grand slam championship and upsetting the defending champion, Iga Swiatek , in straight sets on Centre Court. Eala came home to a hero’s welcome, with Marcos hosting a reception in her honour at Malacanang Palace in Manila, and a nation that had previously paid little attention to the sport now obsessed with it. Soy sauce refills and reused jars: can Philippines’ tingi culture hold back deluge of plastic waste? Read more She has inspired droves of Filipinos to take up tennis, which has seen classes, camps and courts fully booked, leading clubs to upgrade old courts, and increased support for the tennis federation. Speaking about this rise in popularity at a press conference, Eala said: “Everyone comes up to me whenever I go back to Manila saying it’s so hard to get courts … that’s a good thing because when I was younger the courts were empty, nobody was playing.” The Philippines’ sporting interests have historically been all about the “three Bs ”: basketball, billiards and boxing. But now fans and supporters of Eala have been packing local venues and public spaces with watch parties, often staying up to cheer through the night on the other side of the world. The Philippines has not had a prominent sporting superstar to throw its support behind since boxing champion Manny Pacquiao, who applauded Eala as “our new champion” on social media, lauding her Washington comeback for showing the “Filipino heart” . Washington’s tournament director Mark Ein said interest in Eala had been unmatched. He told a media conference, “over the last month the ticketing team says at least 80%, if not more, of the requests in this tournament are about when is Alex Eala playing?” View image in fullscreen Alexandra Eala thanks her fans after losing the Women’s Singles fourth round match against Jasmine Paolini at the Wimbledon Championships in July. Photograph: Neil Hall/EPA Tennis is a sport often dominated by players whose home countries – the United States, Great Britain, and France – can afford the tens of millions of dollars annually it takes to develop young talent. The Philippines does not have that infrastructure, and tennis remained a sport for the elite, with courts mostly found in wealthy areas. Eala comes from a prominent family, but she learned to play tennis on painted-over basketball courts in Quezon City before moving to Spain to attend the Rafa Nadal Academy on a scholarship at the age of 13. Eala is inspiring young Filipinos from more modest backgrounds to find the means to play but has spoken about the need to improve access to public courts and equipment, as well as the condition of those that are available. It was only during her Wimbledon she truly appreciated the impact she is having on millions of Filipinos, she told the palace reception according to the state news agency. “I’m so grateful that I am able to share my triumphs … with the country,” Eala said. “As we say, tagumpay nating lahat (this is our victory).” This article was amended on 5 August 2026 to correct a misspelling of Jessica Pegula’s surname. Explore more on these topics Philippines Tennis Asia Pacific news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)