Bessent says U.S. backed Japan’s yen intervention to help stabilize Asia Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Politics & Policy Bessent says U.S. backed Japan’s yen intervention to help stabilize Asia Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 8:05 AM EDT Updated 4 Hours Ago Luke Fountain @Luke_Fountain25 WATCH LIVE Key Points Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said the U.S. joined Japan’s yen-buying intervention because a stable yen is critical to regional trade and financial stability. Bessent warned that further yen weakness could pressure other Asian currencies and contribute to competitive devaluations. He said intervention can send a market signal, but Japan must follow it with monetary and fiscal policies that support the currency. In this article @JY.1 JPY= KRW= Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 6:54 06:54 Treasury Sec. Bessent: A stable yen is important not only for the U.S., but for the entire region Squawk Box Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said Tuesday that the U.S. joined Japan 's effort to strengthen the yen because the currency's weakness risked destabilizing markets across Asia . "A stable yen is not only important for the U.S., but very important for the entire region," Bessent said on CNBC's " Squawk Box ." Bessent said a sharply weaker yen could pressure other countries to devalue their currencies, pointing to volatility in the South Korean won and concerns that China's yuan is undervalued. "Given the trade flows, given the size of the economy, given their contribution to the global savings market, [it is] very important to have a stable yen," Bessent said. "The Japanese government understands that, and we are proud to stand with them in implementing their policies and help them stabilize the region." The coordinated intervention is a rare U.S. effort to support another major currency and underscored Washington's concern that prolonged yen weakness could fuel inflation in Japan , pressure other Asian currencies and destabilize global markets. The Treasury Department sold euros from U.S. reserves and used the proceeds to buy yen as part of the coordinated operation. Bessent said he assured European officials that the euro sale was merely a reallocation of reserves . A notepad in front of U.S. Secretary of the Treasury Scott Bessent reads "To Do Buy Japanese Yen $5-10 bil" as he participates in a cabinet meeting at Camp David, Maryland, U.S., July 31, 2026. The note, photographed at 11:33 EDT, came after Reuters earlier reported the Treasury had put banks on alert for a possible U.S. intervention in the market for Japan's currency. Daniel Heuer | Reuters But Bessent said the purchases could only curb volatility in the short term and would need to be followed by Japanese policies addressing the forces driving the yen lower . The U.S. and Japan carried out a coordinated yen-buying intervention after what Bessent described as a "substantial undervaluation" of the Japanese currency. He said that the two governments had been in close contact and that Washington believed Japan would pursue policies intended to return the yen to a more normal level. But, Bessent cautioned that intervention alone would not determine the currency's direction . "You can give market signals with intervention, but it's policy that turns it," he said, adding that the U.S. participated because it was optimistic about Japan's policy path. He declined to say whether the Bank of Japan should raise rates but said Japanese officials would need to follow the intervention with broader policy changes . Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by