Financial planners take on the TikTok 'worth the money' trend - UK & USA NEWS Skip to content Wednesday, September 2, 2026 Oil major BP completes search for chair after boardroom upheaval Dell Q2 earnings report 2027 China dissented as G20 opposed export trade distortions: Bessent Japanese green tea giant Ito En surges 8%, defying a broad market sell-off UK & USA NEWS Newsletter Random News Menu Poltics Sports Entertainment Business Health Tech Biography World Search for: Oil major BP completes search for chair after boardroom upheaval Dell Q2 earnings report 2027 China dissented as G20 opposed export trade distortions: Bessent Japanese green tea giant Ito En surges 8%, defying a broad market sell-off UK & USA NEWS Newsletter Random News Search for: Menu Poltics Sports Entertainment Business Health Tech Biography World Headlines Oil major BP completes search for chair after boardroom upheaval 38 seconds ago Dell Q2 earnings report 2027 1 hour ago China dissented as G20 opposed export trade distortions: Bessent 2 hours ago Japanese green tea giant Ito En surges 8%, defying a broad market sell-off 3 hours ago Australia posts second-quarter growth of 2.1%, beating expectations 4 hours ago U.S. completes fresh strikes on Iran as Mideast tensions flare again 5 hours ago Hugging Face’s new duck robot is selling fast. A Chinese chip powers it 6 hours ago Stan Kroenke agrees to buy MLB’s Angels, valuing team and regional network at $4B 7 hours ago House votes to condemn socialism ahead of midterm election 8 hours ago Palo Alto Networks (PANW) Q4 2026 earnings 9 hours ago Home Business Financial planners take on the TikTok ‘worth the money’ trend Business Financial planners take on the TikTok ‘worth the money’ trend Sagar 4 weeks ago 0 7 mins Videos on TikTok of users sharing the items they swear are “always” worth the money have racked up hundreds of thousands of views and likes this summer. The items mentioned in the posts range widely, from skin care products to upgraded airline seats. Sometimes creators make targeted lists, such as purchases that are always worth it for moms or restaurants in New York worth the price. Of course, what’s worth the money for one person may be completely useless to someone else, regardless of the cost. Even the most popular espresso machines will be practically worthless to someone who doesn’t drink coffee , for example. Financial planners tend to avoid giving blanket spending advice because everybody’s financial situation is unique. Working with a financial planner who gets to know your long-term goals and personal values can help you decide what big purchases will likely be worth your investment and which you should probably skip. That said, some purchases generally tend to make more financial sense than others. CNBC Make It asked money pros for items they think are worth the money as well as purchases that sometimes or rarely pay off. Here’s what they had to say. Planners say these purchases are always worth the money Some of the themes that jumped out from planners’ “always worth the money” lists were products and services that can prevent you from costlier expenses down the line or support individuals’ overall health and wellbeing . Preventative care “Preventive spending is almost always worth the money,” says Jordan Gilberti , certified financial planner based in Florida. He includes medical and dental care in that category as well as maintenance on your home and car that can help shield against costly repairs in the future. In addition to seeing medical professionals, purchases that support your overall health on a daily basis are typically worth it. “I don’t cut corners on any of the following: Good sunscreen and good skin care,” says Marguerita Cheng, a Maryland-based CFP and member of CNBC’s Financial Advisor Council . Things you stand, sit, lie or drive on Several planners named an umbrella category of high-quality versions of “anything between you and the ground,” as Noah Schwab , a CFP based in Spokane, Washington, puts it. That includes shoes, mattresses, tires and office chairs. “The cost per use is pennies and the alternative eventually shows up as a medical bill,” he says. Time-saving services Products and services that save you time also appeared on a number of planners’ lists. Kelly Klingaman , a CFP based in Austin, Texas says direct flights, bi-weekly housecleaning services and curbside grocery pickup are worth it, for example. San Francisco-based wealth advisor, Vishal Kumar agrees that paying someone to handle things he doesn’t enjoy like cleaning or other administrative tasks is a worthy investment. “It costs real money, but it hands back hours and a bit of mental space,” he says. “ Buying back your own time is one of the few purchases that quietly pays you back.” Retirement contributions Some of the items planners say are worth the money aren’t products you’ll buy in a store. Contributing to your workplace retirement account like your 401(k) and getting an employer match , if available, is always worth the money, Reggie Fairchild , a CFP based in South Carolina, says. These purchases are sometimes worth the money There’s a level of risk you assume basically anytime you’re spending money. And while it’s clearer that certain purchases are almost always or very rarely worth it, these items fall right in the middle. Life insurance A few planners say life insurance policies, which provide a payout to your beneficiaries in the event of your death, are sometimes worth the money. As with virtually any financial product, it really depends on your personal situation. There are two main types of life insurance — whole and term — and planners say that term life insurance may be worth it for more families than whole. With term life insurance, you’re covered for a set number of years, and policies are generally lower-cost. Florida-based CFP Erin O’Brien says term life insurance is especially worth it if you have a spouse and children who couldn’t get by without your income. “[It’s] so important to protect your family,” she says. Whole life insurance covers you for life and has a cash value you can access while you’re alive. These policies may be worth the investment for a “narrow set of high-net-worth” families, Schwab says. Whole life insurance plans are often marketed to young families as retirement plans, but are “usually the most expensive way to invest for retirement,” and probably not worth it, he says. Home improvements Home renovations fall into another category of purchases that are often thought of as investments. After all, if they add more value to your home than they cost, they could theoretically be worth the money. But Schwab says many homeowners fail to recoup the renovation costs when they sell. Think of home upgrades as “worth it for the years you’ll enjoy the space,” rather than as a financial investment, he says. For example, if you are a cooking enthusiast who plans to live in the same home for a while, updating your kitchen could be well worth the costs, even if the changes won’t increase your home’s value by much. “The return is the years of enjoyment you get from the space, not money you’ll ever see back,” says Schwab. Extended warranties Planners say extended warranties on items such as cars and home appliances can sometimes be valuable while others said they’re never worth it. Texas-based CFP, Joshua Brooks says extended warranties are often unnecessary, but “can make sense if a repair would significantly disrupt your finances.” Private wealth advisor Brett Hina of New Jersey adds that it really depends on the extended warranty policy and purchase it’s protecting. You may already have the appropriate coverage through a factory warranty or sometimes the cost of the extended warranty exceeds the real protection it offers, he says. Items that are rarely worth the money Like the “always” category, there may be some exceptions with items planners say are “never” worth the money. But for the most part these purchases may come with buyer’s remorse. Storage units Fairchild says he often sees clients who get a storage unit while they’re moving and it’s rarely been worth the cost. That’s because people tend to use the units as a repositories for items they don’t want to keep but can’t commit to getting rid of, he says. “Rent it if you need it, but put a real deadline on it, one season, then decide,” says Fairchild. “The monthly fee isn’t the price of storage. It’s the price of not deciding.” Unused subscriptions The “unused” part is key for subscriptions. Several planners mention memberships or subscriptions that are only worth it if you actually use them. So try to be sure of that before you commit and make it a point to regularly audit your subscriptions in case you’re paying for something you forgot about. Status purchases Many planners agree that anything you buy that’s intended to impress other people or “keep up” with peers or influencers you see online is not going to be worth the money, especially if you take on debt to buy it. “One of the biggest financial mistakes I see isn’t a specific product — it’s lifestyle inflation driven by comparison,” says Hina. “Buying things primarily to signal success can make it harder to achieve genuine financial independence .” That goes for luxury cars, a bigger house than you can truly afford and designer-brand items that aren’t necessarily better quality. “Spend generously on the things that genuinely improve your life, and be intentional about the things that don’t,” says Hina. Want to get ahead at work? Then you need to learn how to make effective small talk. In CNBC’s new online course, How To Talk To People At Work , expert instructors share practical strategies to help you use everyday conversations to gain visibility, build meaningful relationships and accelerate your career growth. Sign up today! Take control of your money with CNBC Select CNBC Select is editorially independent and may earn a commission from affiliate partners on links. Source link Please follow and like us: Tagged: Lifestyle Personal finance Texas Post navigation Previous: Oil tumbles after Bessent says Hormuz deal may come this week Next: AMD earnings report Q2 2026 Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Related News Oil major BP completes search for chair after boardroom upheaval Sagar 38 seconds ago 0 Dell Q2 earnings report 2027 Sagar 1 hour ago 0 China dissented as G20 opposed export trade distortions: Bessent Sagar 2 hours ago 0 Japanese green tea giant Ito En surges 8%, defying a broad market sell-off Sagar 3 hours ago 0 Search Search Recent Posts Oil major BP completes search for chair after boardroom upheaval Dell Q2 earnings report 2027 China dissented as G20 opposed export trade distortions: Bessent Japanese green tea giant Ito En surges 8%, defying a broad market sell-off Australia posts second-quarter growth of 2.1%, beating expectations Recent Comments Visit This Link on Trump Applauds Massive Russia-Ukraine Prisoner Swap, Hints at ‘Something Big’ in Peace Talks Buy SEO Backlinks on Trump Applauds Massive Russia-Ukraine Prisoner Swap, Hints at ‘Something Big’ in Peace Talks Birkin Hotsell Yellow Bag on Trump Applauds Massive Russia-Ukraine Prisoner Swap, Hints at ‘Something Big’ in Peace Talks scar removal treatment on LA Riots: Can Trump Send in the National Guard? Here’s What the Insurrection Act Says affordable insurance coverage on Russia-Ukraine War: Is a Ceasefire Near? Trump Plans to Call Putin and Zelensky Archives September 2026 August 2026 July 2026 June 2026 May 2026 April 2026 March 2026 February 2026 January 2026 December 2025 November 2025 October 2025 September 2025 August 2025 July 2025 June 2025 May 2025 Categories Biography Business Entertainment Health Poltics Sports Tech World Copyright [2026] | Powered by ukusanews.com Powered By BlazeThemes . About Us Contect Us Fact checking Policy DNAPA Code of Ethics Correction Policy Privacy Policy