Hundreds in Morocco gather near Ceuta border in anxious wait for missing loved ones | Morocco | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Support the Guardian Last chance to fund independent journalism with 50% off Claim discount Claim discount Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Spain estimates 70,000 people who made the crossing have been returned, leaving about 2,000 still in Ceuta. Photograph: Abdel Majid Bziouat/AFP/Getty Images View image in fullscreen Spain estimates 70,000 people who made the crossing have been returned, leaving about 2,000 still in Ceuta. Photograph: Abdel Majid Bziouat/AFP/Getty Images Morocco Hundreds in Morocco gather near Ceuta border in anxious wait for missing loved ones People hope to see friends or relatives among those still returning as death toll from mass crossing nears 100 Soraya Aybar Laafou in Fnideq and Ashifa Kassam in Madrid Wed 5 Aug 2026 00.00 EDT Last modified on Wed 5 Aug 2026 21.30 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google H undreds of people have gathered in the northern Moroccan town of Fnideq, near the border with Spain’s Ceuta, flashing photos of their missing loved ones to passersby in the hope of tracking them down. Their perch was the same small tranche of land that made headlines around the world last week as extraordinary scenes emerged of about 72,000 people making their way into Ceuta , a tiny Spanish territory in north Africa. On Tuesday, as interior ministers from across the EU joined an emergency videoconference to grapple with the lingering tensions, the focus on the Moroccan side of the border with Ceuta was on the harrowing death toll. At least 88 people have died in Ceuta, according to local officials, and another 11 in Morocco , while dozens of others remain missing. “I have just one son,” said Hadijja, who had been waiting at the border since Saturday, scanning the steady stream of returnees for any sign of her 23-year-old son. “I haven’t had any news of him; he’s not answering his mobile phone.” She had travelled to the border from her home in Tangier, surmising that her unemployed son was among those who had made the crossing. “He didn’t tell me he was going to cross,” she said. “This is a tragedy.” View image in fullscreen People in Fnideq wait at the Ceuta border hoping to see their missing friends or relatives. Photograph: Abdel Majid Bziouat/AFP/Getty Images An estimated 70,000 people who arrived late last week in Ceuta had been returned to Morocco in recent days, Spain’s interior minister said Tuesday. Referencing posts on TikTok, Facebook and WhatsApp that had claimed Morocco was letting people cross the border, people arrived at Fnideq by foot or packed into buses and cars as they joined the surge of people crossing into Spain. Madrid sprang into action, working with Rabat to return the vast majority of those who crossed within 48 hours, even as it fended off a political crisis sparked by calls for Spain to be suspended from the Schengen free-movement zone. Ceuta was a carnival of anti-migrant content for hateful opportunists on the right – and a lesson for the left Jonathan Liew Read more As they returned to Moroccan soil, some said they had come home voluntarily. “I was hungry for days and filled with fear,” said Abselam, 19, from Kenitra in north-western Morocco. A Ceuta resident had eventually taken him in, giving him food and a place to sleep, before he decided to return home. “It’s not worth it, there aren’t jobs for everyone.” Others said they had been forced out of the Spanish territory. “The police surrounded a group of us and escorted us all the way towards the border,” said Simo, 21, from Tetuan. “We didn’t really have a choice.” In recent days, NGOs across Spain have voiced concerns that some of those who crossed into Ceuta and who were eligible for international protection were being returned before being allowed to exercise their right to request asylum. On Tuesday the Spanish government estimated that 2,000 people who had made the crossing were still in Ceuta. The tally includes at least 862 children who have been registered as unaccompanied minors, as Unicef Spain warned that dozens more could still be wandering the city’s streets unprotected. “Many small children crossed over; we don’t know how many have disappeared,” Susana Hidalgo, a migration expert for the organisation, told the broadcaster TVE. The result was a “tremendously difficult” situation in Ceuta. “There are many families on the other side of the border looking for their sons and daughters,” she said, while in Ceuta “there are 10- and 12-year-old children asking for phones so they can call their mothers and tell them they’re OK.” Spanish police said on Tuesday they had set up an office in Ceuta to gather reports of missing people. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Every fortnight Sign up to Global Dispatch Get a different world view with a roundup of the best news, features, opinion and photography, curated by our global development team Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion The concerns over the fate of unaccompanied children in Ceuta were heightened on Tuesday after Spanish media published a video that appeared to show a boy age 12 crying as he begged a soldier not to send him back to Morocco. After several bystanders intervened, pointing out that Spanish law impeded children from being deported alone, the operation – which played out just metres from the border – was halted. Days after the sudden influx, questions continue to linger as to what led to the mass crossing. Morocco has faced mounting accusations over the role it may have played. “People felt that this, if not orchestrated, was at least encouraged or permitted by Morocco,” Juan Jesús Vivas, the long-serving conservative leader of Ceuta, said earlier this week. The insinuation was rejected by a senior Moroccan official. “It’s simplistic to say that Morocco should just have used force to stop them. That is to completely misunderstand this phenomenon,” the official told AFP. “At a certain point, the Moroccan law enforcement forces could no longer confront the migrants because the numbers were very large” and because “the pull effect was very strong,” he added. “Could Spain, seeing them coming, have done something to stop them simply using weapons and security forces? That’s not possible.” In a statement published on Sunday, Morocco’s interior ministry laid blame with the “exploitation of the digital sphere” and “the spread of misinformation” to explain the mass crossing. Spanish intelligence sources have suggested the influx could be traced to a hoax that had swiftly spread across social media after a Spanish supreme court ruling that migrants arriving by sea could not be summarily deported. The Moroccan official said Rabat had sought to warn Madrid about the repercussions of the ruling. “We started engaging with the Spanish side around 22-23 July, when the networks began talking about this,” the official told AFP. “We explained that this ruling was going to create a problem. And it did create a problem.” The claim was rejected by Spain’s migration minister, Elma Saiz. “At no point was there any evidence, any report that alerted us to the magnitude of this unprecedented event,” she told reporters in Madrid. The uncertainty hovering over what exactly transpired extended to Fnideq, where the relatives gathered at the border spoke in hushed tones of what could have happened to their loved ones. Many held on to hope, citing the trickle of good-news stories that had emerged in recent days, such as that of Fatima, who had spent the day waiting at the border with her family for a glimpse of her brother, who had crossed into Ceuta days earlier. “My brother’s phone had run out of battery, but yesterday he borrowed the phone of a Spaniard to call me,” she said. “He told me he would come back this morning, so here we are waiting. I’m sure he’ll arrive soon.” Explore more on these topics Morocco Spain Migration Africa Europe Middle East and north Africa news Share Reuse this content Most viewed ‘Basically, you give yourself to the man’: Trewley Precious Temple on her life as a Gypsy wife – and beyond Study finds three midlife health factors that could delay dementia for 13 years The takedown of Jason Arday has overjoyed the right, and must be a wake-up call for the left Jason Okundaye ‘Spectral lines’ and a giant plume: what science saw when the SpaceX rocket hit the moon One Night Only review – sex is legal for 12 hours a year in bizarre romcom More on this story More on this story EU chief criticises Spain’s migrant plan after Ceuta crisis meeting 2d ago Stronger EU borders needed after Ceuta crisis, von der Leyen says 3d ago Ceuta leader accuses Morocco over ‘atrocity’ of mass border crossing 3d ago EU to hold urgent meeting of interior ministers on Tuesday over Ceuta crisis 5d ago EU offered Spain support ‘from first moment’ of Ceuta crisis, says von der Leyen, after Sánchez hits out – Europe live 5d ago Why is Ceuta a migration flashpoint and how were so many people able to cross from Morocco? 3d ago At least 57 people die as tens of thousands cross to Spanish enclave of Ceuta from Morocco 6d ago Tens of thousands of migrants cross into Spanish enclave Ceuta from Morocco - video 6d ago Spain sends extra troops and police to Ceuta after thousands of migrants arrive 7d ago Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)