Back-to-School Shoe Sale: Up to 55% Off Nike, New Balance, Crocs and More IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Top stories Owala’s back-to-school sale is here The best keratosis pilaris treatments for smoother skin Packing your skin care and makeup is so much easier with this toiletry bag How often should you change and wash your towels REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gearpost Walmart has up to 65% off back-to-school must-haves 35+ college-exclusive back-to-school deals Skip to Content About Us Wellness All Wellness Skin Care Hair Care Oral Care Health Fitness Sleep Home All Home Small appliances Bedding & bath Cleaning Vacuums Office Gardening Kitchen All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech All Tech Electronics Personal Tech TVs Audio Computers Cameras Pets All Pets Dogs Cats Pet Care Lifestyle All Lifestyle Sports Travel Parenting Apparel Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping Subscribe Share About Us Wellness Main Menu All Wellness Skin Care Wellness All Skin Care Hair Care Wellness All Hair Care Oral Care Wellness All Oral Care Health Wellness All Health Fitness Wellness All Fitness Sleep Wellness All Sleep Home Main Menu All Home Small appliances Home All Small appliances Bedding & bath Home All Bedding & bath Cleaning Home All Cleaning Vacuums Home All Vacuums Office Home All Office Gardening Kitchen Main Menu All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech Main Menu All Tech Electronics Tech All Electronics Personal Tech Tech All Personal Tech TVs Tech All TVs Audio Tech All Audio Computers Cameras Pets Main Menu All Pets Dogs Pets All Dogs Cats Pets All Cats Pet Care Pets All Pet Care Lifestyle Main Menu All Lifestyle Sports Travel Lifestyle All Travel Parenting Apparel Lifestyle All Apparel Footwear Lifestyle All Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales Main Menu All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories Main Menu All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides Main Menu All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping More from NBC Sign up for the Selected Newsletter Check out Shop TODAY NBC News TODAY About Help Careers Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information CA Notice Terms Of Service NBC News Sitemap Advertise Ad Choices Follow Selected © 2026 NBCNEWS.COM NBC Selected independently determines what we cover and recommend. When you click on or buy through our links, we earn a commission. Learn more . Deals and Sales Back-to-school shoe sale: Get Crocs, New Balance, Brooks and Nike for as little as $30 before they sell out Shop now while your favorite colors and size are still available. Aug. 8, 2026, 9:00 AM EDT Bethany Heitman Commerce Editor Skip to table of contents Sneakers and shoes for adults, teens, little kids and toddlers are as much as 55% off. Zappos; Nike Getting ready to go back to school typically comes with a long list of things to buy, and shoes are one of the most important things to check off — they’re often the priciest item on that list, too. Growing feet, active school days, and a hundred activities in between mean a good pair (or two) is necessary — for both you and the kiddos. The good news: I found a bunch of popular styles from top brands like New Balance, Crocs, Nike, and more on sale for up to 55 percent off, so you can get picks that look good and hold up well without blowing your budget. The best back-to-school shoe deals Crocs Baya Clogs $ 29.99 $ 49.99 Crocs Now 40% off $ 29.99 $ 44.99 Walmart Now 33% off The Crocs Baya Clog is a lightweight unisex clog made from the brand’s signature foam. It offers ventilated, quick-drying breathability, pivoting heel straps for a secure fit and a customizable design with Jibbitz charm holes. They’re great for wearing to class (we see you college students), heading to sports practice and every day errands. On Women’s Cloudpulse Next Sneakers $ 95.00 $ 140.00 On Now 32% off $ 98.00 $ 140.00 Zappos Now 30% off These cushioned, wide-based gym shoes were built for stability. The breathable mesh upper and a high-traction rubber outsole help them deliver a secure, comfortable fit — perfect for all-day wear. Plus, the fun pink color gives them a pop of style (black and light grey colors are also on sale). Brooks Women's Ghost Max 3 Sneakers $ 109.95 $ 160.00 Brooks Running Now 31% off $ 119.98 $ 159.99 Dick's Sporting Goods Now 25% off These sneakers pair a plush midsole with a broad, stable base for a smooth, supported ride mile after mile. A rocker-shaped heel helps propel you forward and a mesh upper makes these shoes breathable and keep your feet cool. Though these particular sneakers are for women, the same style for men are also on sale for 31 percent off. New Balance Women’s 204L Sneakers $ 59.99 $ 120.00 Foot Locker Now 50% off $ 119.99 New Balance The New Balance 204L marries ‘70s running silhouettes with a premium suede texture for a stylish vibe. They have a sleek, low-profile design look good with jeans, dresses and more. Nike Women's Dunk Low Shoes $ 92.97 $ 120.00 Nike Now 23% off You can’t go wrong with a pair of Dunks. The classic silhouette and iconic color blocking are instantly recognizable. But these shoes don’t just look good — they have a lightweight foam midsole for comfort and rubber outsole for traction. You can get an extra 25% off by using the code DAYONE at checkout. Nike Men's AIr Monarch IV Sneakers $ 59.50 $ 85.00 Amazon Now 30% off The Nike Air Monarch IV has a cool, chunkier silhouette and what the brand calls an Air-Sole unit in the midsole to provide lightweight cushioning. The solid rubber outsole delivers reliable traction for year-round stability — helpful if you’re rushing to class in the rain or moving around a sleek gym floor. Hoka Men's Rincon 4 Sneakers $ 81.25 $ 125.00 Zappos Now 35% off This is the fourth generation of Hoka’s Rincon sneaker, which is known for having an impressive cushion-to-weight ratio, meaning it’s both lightweight and highly cushioned. The upper is made from breathable jacquard and has a snug fit to minimize rubbing and friction as you run. More back-to-school shoe deals 55% off New Balance Unisex 442 Pro Sneakers 45% off New Balance Women’s Fresh Foam X 1080 v14 Running Shoes 40% off Brooks Men’s Hyperion 3 Road-Running Shoes 40% off Vans Unisex Classic Checkerboard Slip-ons 30% off Nike Men’s Jordan Retro 3 Sneakers 30% off Hoka Men’s Clifton 10 Road-Running Shoes Up to 70% off women’s sneakers at Bloomingdale’s Up to 50% off sneakers at Puma Up to 50% off sneakers at Foot Locker Up to 50% off women’s shoes at Adidas Up to 40% off sneakers at Saucony The best back-to-school shoe deals for toddler and kids 50% off Puma Girls FlexFocus Shoes 38% off Saucony Unisex Jazz Hook and Loop Sneakers 36% off New Balance Kid’s 237 Bungee Lace Sneakers 25% off Adidas VL Court 3.0 Sneakers Up to 60% off kids sneakers at See Kai Run Up to 50% off kids sneakers at Stride Rite Up to 50% off toddler and kids sneakers at Macy’s Up to 43% off kids shoes at Crocs The best back-to-school clothing sales Up to 70% off women’s clothing at Anthropologie (plus an extra 40% off when you add to cart) Up to 70% off bras and bralettes at Aerie Up to 60% off kids jeans at Gap Up to 60% off women’s clothing at J.Crew Up to 60% off jeans at American Eagle Up to 50% off jeans at Abercrombie & Fitch Up to 45% off athletic clothing at Lululemon Up to 42% off kids sweats and leggings at Nike Up to 40% off women’s clothing at Alo Yoga Related selected selected 11+ best wide toe box shoes for a more comfortable fit Want more from NBC Selected? Sign up for our newsletter, The Selection, and shop smarter. Why trust NBC Selected? I’m a commerce editor at NBC Selected who covers various topics, including lifestyle, home and wellness. I’ve covered sales and major shopping events like Amazon Prime Day, Black Friday and Cyber Monday for more than a decade. Catch up on NBC Select’s in-depth coverage of tech and tools , wellness and more, and follow us on Facebook , Instagram , Twitter and TikTok to stay up to date. Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off Bethany Heitman Bethany Heitman is a commerce editor at NBC Selected. Back-to-school shoe sale: Get Crocs, New Balance, Brooks and Nike for as little as $30 before they sell out Hair removal cream may seem better than shaving, but is it doing harm to your skin? Derms explain These popular hand warmers were just recalled — here’s why you shouldn’t wait until winter to check yours Latest articles Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off ABOUT CONTACT HELP CAREERS PRIVACY POLICY DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION CA NOTICE TERMS OF SERVICE NBC NEWS SITEMAP AD CHOICES ADVERTISE DEALS & SALES SKIN CARE HEALTH TECH NBCNews.com © 2026 SELECTED | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.