Cyclospora outbreak tied to iceberg lettuce now linked to 15 states, CDC says - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Cyberattacks World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds Watch CBS News HealthWatch Cyclospora outbreak tied to iceberg lettuce now linked to 15 states, CDC says August 5, 2026 / 8:01 PM EDT / CBS/AP Add CBS News on Google Cyclospora cases in 15 states have been linked to iceberg lettuce, U.S. health officials said Wednesday, adding six states with cases tied to the ongoing outbreak . The parasite has been reported in at least 47 states total this year, and investigators have continued to probe how many could be linked to a common contaminated source. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said the number of states tied to the deadly outbreak had grown from nine to 15. Arkansas, Iowa, Missouri, Nebraska, New Hampshire and North Carolina were added to a list that included Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. Investigators initially narrowed in on the lettuce served at Taco Bell . Federal officials subsequently said they are focused on Taylor Farms as the source of the lettuce in the outbreak, and the company has recalled iceberg lettuce grown in central Mexico. Confusion was sparked last month when the Food and Drug Administration announced that a sample of lettuce from Taylor Farms that had tested positive for cyclospora was a false positive . But the FDA clarified the next day that the investigation and evidence "continue to converge on shredded iceberg lettuce from Taylor Farms locations in central Mexico." "I don't think we can say that this is under control yet," Dr. Ulysses Wu, the chief epidemiologist for Hartford HealthCare, told CBS News last month. "Even if this lettuce was implicated, it doesn't mean that other produce is not implicated as well." The CDC previously said it can take as long as six weeks for federal and state officials to determine if a sick person is part of an outbreak. There are several reasons cyclospora outbreaks can be hard to investigate and contain, said Dr. Juan Luis Marquez, medical director of the Washtenaw County and Livingston County health departments in Michigan. It can take weeks between when someone is exposed to the parasite and when they come down with symptoms; it's harder to analyze the parasite in laboratories; and it's a lot of work to interview everyone who is sick and clearly identify common exposures, said Marquez, an adjunct public health professor at the University of Michigan. Also, "there have been staffing cuts at all levels of public health — federal, local, state — so there are less resources and capacity generally available," Marquez said in a statement. Cyclospora is a microscopic, spherical parasite that commonly causes watery diarrhea "with frequent and sometimes explosive bowel movements," according to the CDC. Outbreaks tend to occur most often in the late spring and summer. The heat-loving parasite infects the bowels and spreads through feces. The illness, called cyclosporiasis, is less common than foodborne illnesses caused by other germs, including salmonella and E. coli. Many cyclospora cases are never linked to a specific food or other source. The worst year in the U.S. for infections was 2019, when about 4,700 illnesses were reported nationally. This year has far surpassed that. Michigan alone has reported more than 12,000 cases — including two deaths . Adding in the other states that have reported cases, the national total stands at over 25,000. Of the more than 12,000 cases in Michigan, 193 patients had received hospital treatment as of July 30, according to local health officials. The two people who died had "significant underlying health conditions," the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services said. The FDA says it is tracking five separate ongoing cyclospora outbreaks . The 15-state outbreak is by far the largest. No products have been linked to the other outbreaks, including one that has sickened 115 people. More from CBS News Qdoba removes jalapeños as salmonella outbreak spreads to 27 states Senate confirms Dr. Erica Schwartz as CDC director Rick Brattin wins Republican primary for Missouri seat redrawn to favor GOP House Democrats targeting 12 new GOP districts, including Lauren Boebert's seat Go deeper with The Free Press The Lettuce That Launched a Thousand Headlines Tom Brady’s Midlife Crisis In: Health New Hampshire Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Missouri Iowa North Carolina Nebraska Taylor Farms © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report. Cyclospora outbreak spreads to more states Cyclospora outbreak spreads to more states 02:27 Cyclospora outbreak spreads to more states (02:27) Qdoba removes jalapeños as salmonella outbreak spreads to 27 states Senate confirms Dr. Erica Schwartz as CDC director Rick Brattin wins Republican primary for Missouri seat redrawn to favor GOP The Lettuce That Launched a Thousand Headlines Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue