Boeing Company - U.S. FAA certifies new Boeing 737-7 airplane Skip to main content News Investors Employee/Retiree Merchandise Suppliers Features & Multimedia Commercial Defense Space Services Innovation Our History Global Our Principles Careers Our Company Investors Overview Reports Reports within the Reports section">Quarterly Reports Considerations within the Reports section">Accounting Considerations Reports within the Reports section">Annual Reports Reports within the Reports section">Sustainability Reports Filings within the Reports section">SEC Filings Analyst Center within the Reports section">Interactive Analyst Center News Events & Presentations Events within the Events & Presentations section">Upcoming Events Events within the Events & Presentations section">Past Events Sustainability Governance within the Investors section">Corporate Governance Investor Resources Questions within the Investor Resources section">Frequently Asked Questions & RSS within the Investor Resources section">Email Alerts & RSS Transfer Agent Additional Resources Contact within the Investor Resources section">Investor Contact Reports within the Investor Resources section">Request Reports Home --> Boeing > Investors > News > Press Release Details Investors Overview Reports Reports within the Reports section">Quarterly Reports Considerations within the Reports section">Accounting Considerations Reports within the Reports section">Annual Reports Reports within the Reports section">Sustainability Reports Filings within the Reports section">SEC Filings Analyst Center within the Reports section">Interactive Analyst Center News Events & Presentations Events within the Events & Presentations section">Upcoming Events Events within the Events & Presentations section">Past Events Sustainability Governance within the Investors section">Corporate Governance Investor Resources Questions within the Investor Resources section">Frequently Asked Questions & RSS within the Investor Resources section">Email Alerts & RSS Transfer Agent Additional Resources Contact within the Investor Resources section">Investor Contact Reports within the Investor Resources section">Request Reports Home --> Boeing Investors News Press Release Details --> --> View All News U.S. FAA certifies new Boeing 737-7 airplane August 3, 2026 Regulatory approval clears another 737 MAX variant for service Preparations underway to support first deliveries SEATTLE , Aug. 3, 2026 /PRNewswire/ -- The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration has granted Boeing [NYSE: BA] an amended type certificate for the new 737-7 airplane, clearing it for commercial service. "This important certification validates the rigor of our airplane's design and recognizes the determination and resilience of our 737 MAX development team," said Stephanie Pope, president and CEO of Boeing Commercial Airplanes. "Our team of dedicated engineers and test experts worked through challenges, an extended pandemic, and the transition to new certification processes," Pope added. "Through it all, our team stayed focused on completing all requirements and delivering a safe and more capable airplane to our customers." The smallest and longest-range member of the 737 MAX family, the 737-7 model serves an important market segment by offering 135 to 160 seats (in a two-class configuration) while providing about 10% more range potential than its siblings. Like other 737 MAX jets, the 737-7 reduces fuel use and CO2 emissions by 20% and noise footprint by 50% compared to the airplanes it typically replaces. The regulatory approval caps a multi-year certification effort in which Boeing demonstrated through comprehensive testing and analysis that the airplane meets all commercial aviation regulations. The test program, which began in 2018, included: More than 1,000 hours of flight and ground testing Extensive system safety analysis and human factors reviews An updated engine anti-ice system to address a potential condition that was discovered during flight testing Our Boeing team held regular and detailed discussions with the FAA to ensure Boeing understood the requirements and provided transparency of our progress," said Mike Sinnett, senior vice president of Product Strategy, Product Development and Development Programs. "With this certification program, Boeing has developed a clearer understanding of the latest regulatory requirements, which is expected to accelerate future airplane development with a renewed emphasis on human factors, safety and quality." Boeing and Southwest Airlines, the 737-7 launch customer, are preparing for delivery of the first airplane. A team is readying the first airplanes, including implementing updates to the airplane's final configuration. The FAA also updated Boeing Production Certificate No. 700 (PC 700) to include the 737-7. More information on 737 MAX family The 737 MAX family order book stands at more than 7,200 airplanes, of which more than 2,300 have been delivered through the end of June 2026. The 737-7 typically seats 135-160 passengers in a two-class configuration and offers a range of up to 3,800 nautical miles (7,040 km). The airplane is designed for exceptional performance for operators flying out of airports at high altitudes and hot climates. The other 737 MAX family members offer other unique capabilities: The 737-8 seats 160-180 passengers with a range of up to 3,500 nautical miles (6,480 km). It can profitably serve almost any short and medium-haul market. The 737-9 has three more seating rows than the 737-8 and serves 175-195 passengers with a range of up to 3,300 nautical miles (6,110 km). The 737-10, the largest in the family, offers the best per-seat economics of any single-aisle airplane. It seats 185-210 passengers with a range of up to 3,100 nautical miles (5,740 km). Boeing is working to certify the 737-10 this year. Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements This release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "may," "will," "should," "expects," "intends," "projects," "plans," "believes," "estimates," "targets," "anticipates," and other similar words or expressions, or the negative thereof, generally can be used to help identify these forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements relating to future development of commercial airplanes, outlooks, plans and objectives, and as well as any other statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements are based on expectations and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable when made, but that may not prove to be accurate. These statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Many factors, including economic conditions in the United States and globally, general industry conditions as they may impact us or our customers, and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. A leading global aerospace company and top U.S. exporter, Boeing develops, manufactures and services commercial airplanes, defense products and space systems for customers in more than 150 countries. Our U.S. and global workforce and supplier base drive innovation, economic opportunity, sustainability and community impact. Boeing is committed to fostering a culture based on our core values of safety, quality and integrity. Contact Boeing Media Relations [email protected] View original content to download multimedia: https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/us-faa-certifies-new-boeing-737-7-airplane-302841397.html SOURCE Boeing Email Page Print Investor Sections Back to Top Quick Links CMO CAFMO FAQ Request annual report Upcoming events Email Alerts Investor Contact Utilities News Investors Employee/Retiree Merchandise Suppliers Features & Multimedia --> Categories Commercial Defense Space Services Innovation Our History --> Global Our Principles --> Careers Our Company Popular Links Orders & Deliveries Frontiers Magazine --> Tours Ethics Line Licensing Investment Recovery Frequently Requested Contact Us Follow Boeing Instagram Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn All Social Channels Updates Sign Up --> Sign Up Hear from Us Stock Price BA (NYSE) Email Address * Site Terms Privacy & Cookie Policy Ad Choices Copyright © 1995 - 2025 Boeing. All Rights Reserved. Powered By Q4 Inc. 5.184.0.5