11+ Best Rolling Backpacks of 2026, According to Experts IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Top stories Owala’s back-to-school sale is here The best keratosis pilaris treatments for smoother skin Packing your skin care and makeup is so much easier with this toiletry bag How often should you change and wash your towels REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gearpost, REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gear Walmart has up to 65% off back-to-school must-haves 35+ college-exclusive back-to-school deals Skip to Content About Us Wellness All Wellness Skin Care Hair Care Oral Care Health Fitness Sleep Home All Home Small appliances Bedding & bath Cleaning Vacuums Office Gardening Kitchen All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech All Tech Electronics Personal Tech TVs Audio Computers Cameras Pets All Pets Dogs Cats Pet Care Lifestyle All Lifestyle Sports Travel Parenting Apparel Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping Subscribe Share About Us Wellness Main Menu All Wellness Skin Care Wellness All Skin Care Hair Care Wellness All Hair Care Oral Care Wellness All Oral Care Health Wellness All Health Fitness Wellness All Fitness Sleep Wellness All Sleep Home Main Menu All Home Small appliances Home All Small appliances Bedding & bath Home All Bedding & bath Cleaning Home All Cleaning Vacuums Home All Vacuums Office Home All Office Gardening Kitchen Main Menu All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech Main Menu All Tech Electronics Tech All Electronics Personal Tech Tech All Personal Tech TVs Tech All TVs Audio Tech All Audio Computers Cameras Pets Main Menu All Pets Dogs Pets All Dogs Cats Pets All Cats Pet Care Pets All Pet Care Lifestyle Main Menu All Lifestyle Sports Travel Lifestyle All Travel Parenting Apparel Lifestyle All Apparel Footwear Lifestyle All Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales Main Menu All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories Main Menu All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides Main Menu All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping More from NBC Sign up for the Selected Newsletter Check out Shop TODAY NBC News TODAY About Help Careers Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information CA Notice Terms Of Service NBC News Sitemap Advertise Ad Choices Follow Selected © 2026 NBCNEWS.COM NBC Selected independently determines what we cover and recommend. When you click on or buy through our links, we earn a commission. Learn more . Apparel 11+ best rolling backpacks to help you avoid back pain These rolling backpacks can take the weight off your shoulders — literally. Aug. 5, 2026, 2:31 PM EDT Mili Godio Updates Editor Bethany Heitman Commerce Editor Skip to table of contents Below, find top-rated rolling backpacks from Jansport, High Sierra, Bagsmart and more. Amazon In this article Our top picks The best rolling backpacks of 2026 How I picked the best rolling backpacks What to consider when shopping for rolling backpacks Frequently asked questions Meet our health experts Why trust NBC Selected? See 4 More Backpacks are a back-to-school staple. But multiple classes and extracurriculars can mean lots of textbooks and supplies — and the weight of these items can start to get overbearing. If you’re looking for an alternative to a traditional backpack with shoulder straps, a rolling backpack could be a great option as it can take the weight off your back (literally). I consulted experts on how heavy backpacks can impact students and whether rolling backpacks are a safer option. Plus, I share the best rolling backpacks based on their guidance. Selected. Our top picks Best overall J World New York Sunrise Rolling Backpack $undefined $51.99 Amazon Learn more Best budget option Rockland Double Handle Rolling Backpack $undefined $40.54 Amazon Learn more Best for young kids Twise Side-Kick Rolling Backpack $undefined $54.99 Target Learn more Best for teens JanSport Driver 8 Backpack $undefined $180.94 Amazon Learn more See 1 More The best rolling backpacks of 2026 I rounded up highly-rated rolling backpacks, all of which are in line with our experts’ guidance (more on that later). I also note the dimensions, capacity in liters and the age recommendations for each pick so that you can choose the best option for your unique needs. Best overall J World New York Sunrise Rolling Backpack 9,803 Amazon Reviews $ 51.99 Amazon What to know Dimensions: 18 in. H x 13 in. W x 9 in. D | Capacity: 34.5 liters | Age: 8 years and up What we like Available in many styles Can be worn on back Has side pockets Something to note Nothing to note at this time Designed for kids ages 8 and older, this J World rolling backpack is my overall pick thanks to its durable ​​ripstop polyester fabric and rubber bottom that can withstand being dragged on hard floors and pavement, according to the brand. It also comes with two mesh side pockets for water bottles and its front pocket organizer has a key clip, pen holders, card slots and an internal zipper to keep small items safe. The highly-rated backpack, which is available in more than 40 kid-friendly designs and patterns, including Safari , Dandelion and Purple Galaxy . Best budget Rockland Double Handle Rolling Backpack 17,544 Amazon Reviews $ 40.54 Amazon $ 32.47 Home Depot $ 45.06 Walmart What to know Dimensions: 20 in. H x 12 in. W x 8 in. D | Capacity: 20 liters | Age: 5 years and up What we like Has side mesh pockets Shoulder straps have padding Straps are adjustable Something to note Best for children If you’re looking for a good-quality rolling backpack for less than $50, this Rockland option is your pick. It’s made from durable water-resistant polyester and has a heavy-duty plastic stand on the bottom to keep it upright. Its handle is extendable, and the bag has pockets galore to keep your water bottle, notebooks, toiletries and personal items organized. You can choose from several patterns and designs, including polka dots , pink chevron , multi-colored hearts and blue leopard . Best for travel Matein Rolling Backpack Wheeled Laptop Backpack 5,094 Amazon Reviews $ 62.99 $ 112.99 Amazon Now 44% off What to know Dimensions: 22.5 in L x 14 in W x 9.25 in D | Capacity: 45 liters | Age: n/a What we like Good for travel Available in two sizes Has many pockets Something to note Nothing to note at this time This durable waterproof rolling backpack is ideal for both travel or work. It has a large pocket on the front with even smaller pockets on the inside. The main compartment has a laptop sleeve and one for a tablet, and the middle compartment has a mesh pocket for books and more. The main compartment also has a space for folded clothing, making the backpack ideal for short trips. It has a pocket on the side for a water bottle and you can hide the handle on top when you’re not rolling it. Most durable Everest Deluxe Wheeled Backpack 3,677 Amazon Reviews $ 45.00 Amazon $ 51.93 Walmart What to know Dimensions: 18.5 in. H x 13.5 in. W x 7 in. D | Capacity: 27.9 liters | Age: n/a What we like Has many pockets Has pockets for water bottle Suitable as a personal item Something to note Somewhat small This backpack is made from water- and mold-resistant canvas that keeps it in good shape despite long days at school, according to the brand. Its spacious main compartment has a double zipper closure for extra security and a double-zippered front pocket with another mesh pocket, a built-in organizer and key ring to keep smaller essentials in one place. The backpack has four additional pockets on the front and three side pockets for even more storage. Though it’s spacious and holds a lot, it’s still compact enough to fit underneath most airline seats so you can use it as a personal item when you’re flying. It’s available in several colors, including navy , burgundy and black . Best for toddlers Yodo 3-Way Toddler Rolling Backpack 527 Amazon Reviews $ 45.88 Amazon What to know Dimensions: 15 in. H x 11.8 in. W x 6.1 in. D | Capacity: n/a | Age: 18-36 months What we like Shoulder straps are adjustable Has side pocket Has a name card Something to note Nothing to note at this time Your toddler can carry this small dinosaur backpack by hand, strap it on their back or roll it around using the small handle. It has one large compartment and a smaller padded front pouch, as well as two mesh pockets on either side to hold a water bottle. The back panel is padded for comfort and it has two zippers to allow you to open it in either direction or to zip it all the way open to fill or remove things. The small size makes it ideal for toddlers up to three years old. Best for elementary school kids Twise Side-Kick Rolling Backpack $ 54.99 Target What to know Dimensions: 16 in. H x 16 in. W x 5 in. D | Capacity: 15.7 liters | Age: 3 years and up What we like Has a front pocket Works as a regular backpack Suitable carry on Something to note Somewhat small The Twise Side-Kick is designed for young children between the ages of 3 and 9 years old and comes in several animal-inspired designs, including dinosaurs , penguins and giraffes . It has a padded grip handle, two side pockets for water bottles and a front pocket organizer with a pencil holder, key fob and zipper pocket. The backpack, made from water-resistant polyester, also has a cushioned back for comfort when you use it as a traditional backpack, according to the brand. Best for middle and high school kids JanSport Driver 8 Backpack 3,117 Amazon Reviews $ 180.94 Amazon What to know Dimensions: 20 in. H x 14 in. W x 8 in. D | Capacity: 36 liters | Age: n/a What we like Has a key leash Straps are stowable Has a mesh side pocket Something to note May be large for some The JanSport Driver 8 is the brand’s classic backpack silhouette on wheels. It comes in several colors and patterns and has a padded handle, a padded back panel and shoulder straps that you can tuck away. It also has multiple compartments, including two main ones to store larger supplies, a laptop sleeve, a front utility pocket with an organizer for pens and pencils, a front stash pocket for smaller items and a side water bottle pocket. Best personalized Mackenzie Navy Trim Solid Backpack $ 49.50 Pottery Barn Kids What to know Dimensions: 18 in. H x 13 in. W x 7 in. D | Capacity: n/a | Age: 6 years and up What we like You can personalize it Matching accessories available Something to note Limited colors You can personalize this rolling backpack to display your child’s name, which can help teachers, school staff and other students identify them during the first few days of school and return it if it gets lost. It’s made from a durable and water-resistant material and can be carried on the back as well, according to the brand. You can also purchase a matching lunch box and water bottle , both of which you can also put your name on. Best with lunchbox Tilami Rolling Backpack 19-inch with Lunch Bag 3,580 Amazon Reviews $ 71.99 $ 89.99 Amazon Now 20% off What to know Dimensions: 19 in. H x 13 in. W x 8 in. D for backpack, 10 in. H x 7.5 in. W x 10 in. D for lunch box | Capacity: 33 liters | Age: 4 years and up What we like Available in many styles Lunch box has a lot of handles Waterproof material Something to note Best for younger kids This rolling backpack and lunch box matching set comes in more than 30 kid-friendly designs, including Cherries , Galaxy , and Dinosaur . The lunch box has a strap that attaches to the backpack’s handle. There are multiple compartments, including a main pocket, a middle pocket, a front pocket to store notebooks and a small top-front pocket for smaller items like glasses and headphones. Best water-resistant Pottery Barn Teen Gear-Up Black Recycled Backpack $ 34.99 $ 59.50 Pottery Barn Teen Now 41% off What to know Dimensions: 20.5 in. H x 13 in. W x 7.5 in. D | Capacity: 28 liters | Age: n/a What we like Straps have key ring Available to monogram Laptop sleeve Something to note Nothing to note at this time This water-resistant backpack can be personalized with your teen’s name or initials for a custom feel. It also has four exterior pockets, a laptop compartment, a cinch mesh pocket on the side to hold a water bottle and a durable plastic base to keep it from getting scratched and damaged, according to the brand. Best with multiple carry modes Bagsmart Roller Backpack $ 125.99 $ 139.99 Bagsmart Now 10% off What to know Dimensions: 21.7 in H x 13.8 in W x 9.1 in D | Capacity: 43 liters | Age: n/a What we like Suitable for travel Has pocket for water bottle Has laptop pocket Something to note Large You can carry this backpack in three ways: as a backpack, a roller or a weekender (duffel). It has a laptop sleeve, water bottle holder and a zip-pocket for all your smaller necessities. When it comes to comfort, this roller backpack has padded shoulder straps that tuck away when you’re not using them, an aluminum handle for rolling with two height options, an adjustable sternum strap and rollerblade-inspired wheels that glide with ease, according to the brand. This option fits a lot without adding too much weight to your back, according to reviewers at Bagsmart. How I picked the best rolling backpacks According to the American Academy of Pediatrics , a student’s backpack should not exceed 15 percent of their body weight due to concerns of discomfort and risk of injury to muscles and joints. “Our backs house some of the strongest muscles in our body. But add food, schoolbooks, electronics and an assortment of other items, and the weight can add up quickly,” says Shai Karpf , the owner and directing physician at North Broward Chiropractic & Wellness. When compiling all the products in this list, here are some factors Karpf recommended I consider: Weight distribution: Backpacks with multiple storage compartments help distribute weight to alleviate wrist, back, elbow or shoulder pain. Wheels: Each rolling backpack we list has wheels and handles that make moving it around easy and stress-free, especially in a busy environment like school. Capacity and dimensions: We included options that can fit a lot without making the bag overly heavy. Also, each option below is fit to use at school, work and while traveling, with age recommendations ranging from toddlers to adults. What to consider when shopping for rolling backpacks When shopping for a rolling backpack to avoid back pain, experts recommend taking these following factors into consideration: Size and storage: Rolling backpacks should offer a main compartment and multiple pockets to help kids store their school supplies, water bottles and smaller essentials like keys, pencils and more. Comfort: Our experts say that rolling backpacks might be hard to take up and down the stairs or on uneven surfaces, so consider a multifunctional option that can be rolled and worn on the shoulders. Also, look for padded shoulder straps, padded backs, a grip handle for comfort and an adjustable handle that can conform to your one’s size and height (though keep in mind the manufacturer’s age recommendations). Durability: Look for backpacks made from durable, water-resistant fabrics like polyester, canvas and nylon. And because kids are dragging around their rolling backpacks for hours each day, you should consider a rubber bottom that helps prevent it from getting tears, scratches or other damage. Frequently asked questions What are the potential health implications of carrying around a heavy backpack? Heavy backpacks are all too common , and they can take a toll when students carry them around for eight or more hours at school every day. Carrying a heavy backpack can put a strain on the spine and shoulders , potentially causing short-term effects like soreness and fatigue and long-term bad habits like slouching and poor posture, according to experts I spoke to. “The back will compensate for any load applied to it for an extended period of time,” says Dr. Jill Noble , the division director of general pediatrics at the University of Michigan Health and Dr. Ingrid Ichesco , a clinical assistant professor of pediatrics at the University of Michigan Health in a joint email response. “There is no evidence that structural spinal deformity can result from backpack use. There is little chance a child or teen will be permanently injured by carrying a heavy backpack.” Are rolling backpacks a good alternative to regular backpacks? Rolling backpacks can be a great alternative to traditional backpacks since they “put the weight on the wheels instead of on your musculoskeletal system,” says Karpf. This is helpful for children experiencing discomfort from lugging their backpacks at school every day. It can also be a good option for those who do extracurricular activities or walk home from school. Meet our health experts At NBC Selected, we work with experts who have specialized knowledge and authority based on relevant training and/or experience. We also take steps to ensure all expert advice and recommendations are made independently and without undisclosed financial conflicts of interest. Shai Karpf is a chiropractor and the owner and directing physician at North Broward Chiropractic & Wellness in Coconut Creek, Florida. Dr. Jill Noble is a board-certified pediatrician and the division director of general pediatrics at the University of Michigan Health. Dr. Ingrid Ichesco is a board-certified pediatrician and a clinical assistant professor of pediatrics who specializes in sports medicine at the University of Michigan Health. Why trust NBC Selected? I’m an editor at NBC Selected who covers wellness, skin care, hair care and more. I’ve written about the best scar creams , treating teen acne and more. For this article, I spoke to three experts about the benefits of rolling backpacks and how to shop for the best ones. Want more from NBC Selected? Sign up for our newsletter, The Selection, and shop smarter. Catch up on NBC Selected’s in-depth coverage of tech and tools , wellness and more, and follow us on Facebook , Instagram , Twitter and TikTok to stay up to date. Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off Mili Godio Mili Godio is the updates editor for NBC Selected. Her expertise lies in wellness, skin care, hair care and pets. 11+ best rolling backpacks to help you avoid back pain Dealing with rosacea and redness? Start with these derm-approved skin care products The best keratosis pilaris treatments for smoother skin, according to dermatologists Latest articles Bethany Heitman Bethany Heitman is a commerce editor at NBC Selected. 1.5 million cartons of eggs have been recalled for Salmonella — here’s what you need to know (and do) to stay safe 11+ best rolling backpacks to help you avoid back pain Walmart has up to 65% off back-to-school must-haves — shop now before the rush Latest articles Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off In this article Our top picks The best rolling backpacks of 2026 How I picked the best rolling backpacks What to consider when shopping for rolling backpacks Frequently asked questions Meet our health experts Why trust NBC Selected? ABOUT CONTACT HELP CAREERS PRIVACY POLICY DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION CA NOTICE TERMS OF SERVICE NBC NEWS SITEMAP AD CHOICES ADVERTISE DEALS & SALES SKIN CARE HEALTH TECH NBCNews.com © 2026 SELECTED | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.