Texas law firm to receive $150M to represent unaccompanied migrant children : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Texas law firm to receive $150M to represent unaccompanied migrant children The firm, Houston-based Burke Law Group has only two attorneys who specialize in immigration and asylum cases. Two of its founders have ties to the Trump administration. Immigration Small Texas law firm set to receive $150M to represent unaccompanied migrant children August 5, 2026 4:23 PM ET Heard on All Things Considered Sergio Martínez-Beltrán $150 million contract to represent migrant children awarded to Trump connected Texas law firm Listen · 4:11 4-Minute Listen Playlist Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5922451/nx-s1-9876899" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Enlarge this image Migrant children line up to enter a tent at the Homestead Temporary Shelter for Unaccompanied Children in Homestead, Fla. in February 2019. Wilfredo Lee/AP hide caption toggle caption Wilfredo Lee/AP Migrant children line up to enter a tent at the Homestead Temporary Shelter for Unaccompanied Children in Homestead, Fla. in February 2019. Wilfredo Lee/AP AUSTIN, Texas — The federal government plans to award $150 million to a small Texas law firm with ties to the Trump administration to represent unaccompanied immigrant children in government custody without a guardian during immigration proceedings, according to a notice set to post to the Federal Register on Thursday. The government has been required by law for decades to protect migrant children who are in the country illegally without guardians, over fears they could be exploited, abused or trafficked. Some of the children are so young they haven't learned to talk and without adequate representation it is almost guaranteed that kids will be deported. Sponsor Message The firm, Houston-based Burke Law Group, specializes in advising "companies on complex environmental, regulatory, and enforcement matters," its website states. Out of 24 attorneys, only two specialize in immigration and asylum cases. "Instead of taking care of these children, the government is instead implementing things such as awarding a contract to a private small law firm in Texas with no discernible experience in relevant immigration law or child welfare," said Roxana Avila-Cimpeanu, the deputy director of the Florence Immigrant and Refugee Rights Project, a nonprofit that provided legal services to unaccompanied minors. Burke Law Group did not respond to multiple requests for comment via phone and email. The Department of Health and Human Services, which is the agency awarding the contract, did not respond either. The proposed award comes after a contract with a group of nearly 100 legal nonprofits to do similar work expired on Friday . The Trump administration had stopped paying those legal nonprofits back in November, when lawyers refused to turn over confidential information about the children. Michael Lukens, the executive director of Amica Center for Immigrant Rights, told reporters Wednesday that information was covered by attorney-client privilege. "HHS's insistence on this data — I truly believe that whoever signs contracts with HHS is going to agree in their contract to turn over this data," he said. Sponsor Message The lawyers say the federal government owes them $65 million and there is an ongoing lawsuit over this issue .. Ties to the Trump administration A co-founder of Burke Law Group, Marcella Burke , served in the first Trump administration in both the Interior Department and the Environmental Protection Agency. And a founding partner, Jeffrey Hall, currently serves as an assistant administrator at the EPA . During Hall's confirmation hearing, U.S. Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, D-RI, expressed concern about the nomination of the lawyer to the post. "Mr. Hall's work on 'environmental' matters at Burke Law Group focused on tearing down statutory protections meant to guarantee clean air and clean water, seeking to limit EPA's authority under the Clean Air Act, and gutting greenhouse gas regulations that protect against poisonous emissions," Whitehouse wrote in his opening statement. The EPA did not respond to a request seeking comment from Hall. Immigrant-rights advocates are questioning DHS' proposal to award Burke Law Group the contract. The contract only covers about 1,800 children in shelters, a nonprofit that represented the minors told reporters Wednesday. It's unclear what will happen to the nearly 22,000 children who are not in HHS shelters. Lukens said "technically nobody in the country has a contract with HHS to provide services to kids." The proposed contract with Burke Law Group is supposed to go into effect on Aug. 15, leaving a two week gap. Lukens said his organization and other nonprofits have continued to provide legal services "because that is our mission and our ethical obligation." He and other organizations told reporters they will continue to do so for free for now, or until they lose all the few resources they have left. Acacia Center for Justice, a Washington, D.C.-based nonprofit contracted to provide the services until July 31, said in a statement Wednesday it is "adamant that whichever organization takes over this contract, it must have the deep experience required to navigate our country's complex immigration system and the training to work with vulnerable children, many of whom fled violence, trafficking, and abuse to come to this country." Donald Trump immigration policy unaccompanied migrant children Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Immigration More than 25,000 children lose previous legal protections, as federal contract ends Politics Senate committee set to vote on whether to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress Law Federal judges face scrutiny after alleged misconduct in 3 states Europe Drone with explosives found at German airport, official sees 'new quality' of threat Health Dr. Erica Schwartz confirmed as CDC director, filling a leadership vacuum Elections Progressives see biggest win yet in Michigan, while Trump flexes power over GOP More Stories From NPR Immigration More than 25,000 children lose previous legal protections, as federal contract ends Immigration The Trump administration has undercut the U.S. asylum program. These 3 charts show how Immigration Bodycams record agents using slurs in LA raids. ACLU says it proves racial profiling Immigration Haitian TPS holders in South Florida brace for end of their legal status National Guard deployments In Memphis, an 'anti-crime' task force quietly turned into an ICE crackdown Immigration Families brace for separation as Haitians set to lose protected status next week Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Politics Senate committee set to vote on whether to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress Europe Drone with explosives found at German airport, official sees 'new quality' of threat Health Dr. Erica Schwartz confirmed as CDC director, filling a leadership vacuum Elections Progressives see biggest win yet in Michigan, while Trump flexes power over GOP Health Black lung rates in Appalachia are high as the 1970s, with thousands of miners sick The Ripple Effect The keepers of the Grateful Dead's history NPR Editors' Picks Healthcare How deep-rooted medical bias creates deadly consequences for addiction patients Politics Celebrity culture is one thing. For TMZ, Congress is the new 'reality show' Sports Gianni Infantino gets internal support at crisis meeting to remain as FIFA president Asia Ousted Bangladeshi leader vows to return from exile despite facing a death sentence World Cafe How Midwest doldrums became a gift for Kevin Morby Asia Pakistan's ruling party leads in Kashmir vote despite boycott call by banned group Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices