Hugging Face CEO says China is winning the AI race with open models Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu AI Effect AI at Work AI Insights AI Impact AI Events AI Age Hugging Face CEO says China is winning the AI race and dominating on open models Published Mon, Aug 3 2026 11:49 AM EDT Updated Mon, Aug 3 2026 1:28 PM EDT Samantha Subin @samantha_subin WATCH LIVE Key Points Hugging Face CEO Clément Delangue told CNBC on Monday that China is winning the AI race. He expects Chinese tools to catch up to the U.S. frontier labs by the end of 2026 or in 2027. The OpenAI agent hack on Hugging Face has raised concerns over advancing cyber AI models. watch now VIDEO 3:14 03:14 Hugging Face CEO says China is winning the AI race and dominating on open models Squawk on the Street Hugging Face CEO Clément Delangue said China is winning the artificial intelligence race with open-weight models and could catch up to U.S. model makers as soon as this year. "They're clearly dominating on open models right now, and I wouldn't be surprised if they start dominating at the frontier either by the end of this year or next year at the rate of progress," he told CNBC's " Squawk on the Street " on Monday. Fueling this revolution is the open collaboration and sharing ecosystem in China, while model makers in the U.S. are "building in silos" and risk falling behind, he said. Last month, OpenAI agents broke out of a training environment and hacked open-source software developer platform Hugging Face, raising concerns over the rapid evolution of powerful AI and cybersecurity tools. The incident also brought months of simmering cybersecurity fears to a head, demonstrating how easily AI agents could cause immense damage, while making the case for open models in the era of skyrocketing token costs. Read more CNBC tech news Marc Benioff is getting his mojo back as Salesforce's AI strength quiets skeptics Judge blocks Pentagon blacklist of Anthropic as supply chain risk SK Hynix CEO says Indiana will be key memory production base by 2030, first U.S. facility now underway After Meta's landmark settlement with state AGs, legal headaches remain Delangue, a proponent of open-source models, blamed engineering mistakes for the recent attack on Hugging Face and said his company used a Nvidia version of a Chinese open model to resolve the attack. In recent months, Chinese open-source models have been closing the capabilities gap with U.S. model makers, sparking debate over whether to restrict access. Last month, technology heavyweights such as Microsoft , Palantir and Nvidia signed a letter urging policymakers to avoid restricting open-weight models and suppressing competition. "AI cybersecurity is going to become a huge market in the U.S. and in the world," Delangue said. "In this market, probably open models will be kings." Delangue said the company maintains a "healthy collaboration" with OpenAI and called the frontier lab "good partners" before and after the incident. VIDEO 14:33 14:33 Watch CNBC's full interview with Hugging Face CEO Clem Delangue Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. More In AI Age OpenAI data center chief Chris Malone is out, the latest in a string of executive exits Ashley Capoot Broadcom debt deal expected to reach upwards of $70 billion, sources say CJ Haddad AI data center outrage is showing up everywhere from ads to elections Ashley Capoot Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by