Oldham surgeon struck off after wrongly connecting patient's organs - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions Manchester Surgeon struck off after wrongly connecting organs Image source, PA Media Image caption, An expert witness said the bowel procedure carried out by Dr Rahman was "not known to man" Published 4 August 2026, 11:31 BST A doctor who botched an operation so badly it was described as "not compatible with life" has been struck off the medical register. Dr Yasser Adly Abdel Rahman, an NHS locum surgeon from Egypt, carried out the flawed emergency bowel procedure on a young man. It meant the contents of the patient's bowel, leaving his stomach, were re-deposited back into his stomach through a circular "closed loop", the Medical Practitioners Tribunal Service (MPTS) heard. The patient was left in "uncontrollable pain" and could have died but for another surgeon correcting the error in a second operation, the misconduct hearing, sitting in Manchester, was told. Rahman at no time considered that something may have gone wrong surgically, the tribunal heard, despite the patient's parents and other medics expressing concerns. 'Bad as it gets' A former consultant general and colorectal surgeon, acting as the General Medical Council's expert witness, said the procedure carried out by Dr Rahman was "not known to man" and his error was "as bad as it gets". Rahman, who qualified in 1993 from Ain Shams University in Cairo, Egypt, did not attend the hearing and was not legally represented. He claimed he had been made a "scapegoat" after a "witch hunt" following the operation, carried out at the Royal Oldham Hospital, where he was working as a locum on 25 August 2020. The MPTS imposed an order restricting his work as a doctor in July of the following year, but Rahman broke the conditions of the order as he then applied for and secured a job as a locum at Affidea Express Care Clinic in Ireland in February 2022, the tribunal found. This breach of the order imposed on his work was an "aggravating" feature, the tribunal ruled, to already "significant" errors in surgery and post-op care, the hearing was told. The tribunal concluded in a ruling last month that Rahman's misconduct was "fundamentally incompatible with continued registration" and erased him from the medical register allowing him to work as a doctor. Get in touch Tell us which stories we should cover in Greater Manchester Contact form Contact form Listen to the best of BBC Radio Manchester on Sounds and follow BBC Manchester on Facebook , external , X , external , and Instagram , external . You can also send story ideas via Whatsapp to 0808 100 2230. Related topics Oldham More on this story Great Ormond Street doctor who botched surgery harmed nearly 100 children Published 29 January Woman's leg amputated after botched knee op Published 18 February Struck-off doctor loses appeal to return to work Published 13 April From other local news sites Emmerdale's Isabel Hodgins adorable baby snap at popular Swinton coffee shop External Manchester Evening News Murder suspects bailed after man dies after alleged assault in Wigan External Manchester Evening News Oasis, Marcus Rashford and Aitch star in giant free Manchester exhibition External Bolton News Major refurbishment approved for petrol station to replace old equipment External Warrington Guardian Thriller novel inspired by Warrington and its industrial heritage to be released soon External Warrington Guardian Developer seeking permission for homes on green belt land occupied by stables External Knutsford Guardian Information about BBC links to other news sites The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:01 Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack. 00:01:01, play video Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack 0:57 Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites. 00:00:57, play video Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport 1:01 What are the 'luteal uglies'? 00:01:01, play video What are the 'luteal uglies'? 0:59 Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 00:00:59, play video Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 0:40 US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak. 00:00:40, play video US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak 0:35 PC Harper's mother on early release for killers. 00:00:35, play video PC Harper's mother on early release for killers 0:41 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti. 00:00:41, play video 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti 0:54 Why Scotland's exam results come first. 00:00:54, play video Why Scotland's exam results come first 1:06 Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 00:01:06, play video Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 0:39 Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests. 00:00:39, play video Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests 1:09 Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos. 00:01:09, play video Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos 0:25 Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas. 00:00:25, play video Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas 0:45 Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer. 00:00:45, play video Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer 0:55 Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight. 00:00:55, play video Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight 0:27 Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend. 00:00:27, play video Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend 0:59 How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president. 00:00:59, play video How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president 1:57 Are some schools taking discipline too far? 00:01:57, play video Are some schools taking discipline too far? Top stories Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack Published 4 hours ago More than 170 migrants rescued after boat catches fire in Channel Published 2 hours ago Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece Published 2 hours ago More to explore Which area has the best grades? Key takeaways from Scotland's exam results How to avoid the worst of the Italian heat I left my wife and twins behind - why this Nigerian man fled South Africa Breast cancer checks missing most women under 50 who are at risk, says study There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger After three traumatic years at uni, I fear I won't get my dream nursing job Woman has pioneering womb surgery to fix 'miracle' baby with intestines outside its body Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC 'I said maybeeee...' Follow police investigations from the 999 call to conviction The return of the thrilling, award-winning drama about the CIA Tommy and John Fury debate what makes a home Most read 1 Princess Eugenie gives birth to baby girl in Portugal 2 Athletes go 'missing' after Commonwealth Games ends 3 Major search under way for boy, 13, missing at sea 4 Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack 5 Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece 6 Bono, Eddie Vedder and Hozier among mourners at Glen Hansard's funeral 7 Man 'driven insane' by noise admits killing fish 8 Care company fined for running illegal children's homes in legal first 9 Ed Sheeran fined for failing to insure Aston Martin 10 Oil prices fall on hopes Strait of Hormuz could reopen BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.