Warnings of new wave of atrocities in besieged Sudanese city : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Warnings of new wave of atrocities in besieged Sudanese city Hundreds of thousands of civilians in el-Obeid are being battered by relentless drone strikes and face critical water shortages and a worsening cholera outbreak, while women and girls are reporting high rates of sexual violence. Africa Besieged Sudanese city faces relentless drone strikes and risk of mass atrocities, U.N. warns August 7, 2026 5:00 AM ET By Kate Bartlett Women and children queue to receive free food being distributed in al-Mohayra camp for displaced people, near the city of el-Obeid in the southern Kordofan region, on June 29, 2026. AFP via Getty Images/AFP hide caption toggle caption AFP via Getty Images/AFP Whenever residents of the besieged city of el-Obeid look up at the sky, it is filled with drones — sometimes as many as 40 at a time. The hum of the unmanned aircraft, which have been conducting deadly strikes on the city for months, has become the soundtrack to their days. And the drones are indiscriminate. "You might get hit and killed by a drone while you're asleep at home, or while on the way to school. You could also get hit by a drone in the market," says one 25-year-old resident. The local aid worker doesn't want to be named because of the risk to her safety, but she says they even hit funerals. Sponsor Message Her uncle was killed in a drone strike while going to bury his neighbor — who'd been killed in a drone strike. Sudan has been mired in a brutal civil between government forces and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) for more than three years. The war has caused the world's largest humanitarian crisis and displaced millions of people. El-Obeid, the capital of North Kordofan state, sits along a strategic corridor in central Sudan, south of the capital, Khartoum, and on the route to the country's western Darfur region. Its location has made it a critical battleground in the war. According to data from the International NGO Safety Organisation, North Kordofan has recorded the highest number of drone attacks in Sudan in 2026. Drones have been used by both sides to the conflict. United Nations experts are now warning of a new risk of large-scale atrocities in el-Obeid, which they say could see a repeat of what happened in the Darfur city of el-Fasher last year, when the RSF slaughtered some 6,000 civilians. U.N. investigators later declared those crimes bore "the hallmarks of genocide." Volker Türk, the U.N. high commissioner for human rights, has stressed the need for urgent action. Sponsor Message "This is not a drill. It is a red alert that needs to land on the desks of heads of state and government around the world," he said last month. "Their phones should be running hot in the coming days and weeks, with ideas on how to prevent atrocity crimes in el-Obeid and in other places in Kordofan." Already in el-Obeid, a city of about 500,000 people, the RSF is replicating tactics it used in el-Fasher, attacking critical infrastructure, including water distribution points, and causing severe water shortages. That has left women facing a "deadly gamble" as they go out to collect water, according to U.N. Women East Africa Director Anna Mutavati. "Under the perception that darkness offers protection from aerial attacks, these women and girls have been harassed, raped and subjected to other forms of sexual violence — all while trying to access water," she said. Meanwhile, a deadly cholera outbreak is spreading in parts of the city, with children the worst affected. "Cholera is tearing through certain communities in the city, with the outbreak being compounded by incessant rains and recent drone strikes that have crippled critical medical facilities and left thousands without access to urgent treatment and life-saving medications," Plan International Sudan Director Mohamed Kamal said this week. "The situation facing children is particularly dangerous," he said. "They are far more susceptible to disease, some face the prospect of recruitment by armed groups, and they are experiencing lasting psychological trauma." Sudanese children scrape leftover food from an empty pot that was distributed in al-Rahmaniyah camp for displaced people, near the city of el-Obeid in the southern Kordofan region on July 7, 2026. AFP via Getty Images/AFP hide caption toggle caption AFP via Getty Images/AFP U.S. senators urge action Since the war broke out in 2023, at least 59,000 people have been killed, according to the Armed Conflict Location & Event Data Project, a conflict-monitoring group. But the true toll could be much higher. Sudan's government forces have been buoyed by recent gains against the RSF. Last week, they celebrated retaking a major highway in North Kordofan and several other key positions. Sponsor Message But despite those military advances, Sudan researcher Eric Reeves told NPR this week: "There is no likelihood of a military rescue of el-Obeid." More than 100,000 displaced people there are now sheltering in camps, and some are facing extreme hunger. "Many families are struggling to meet their basic needs in IDP camps," Esperanza Santos, Sudan emergency coordinator for Doctors Without Borders, told NPR. Aid funding cuts and rising diesel and fertilizer costs linked to the broader disruption caused by the war in Iran are also worsening the situation, according to the World Food Programme, which is distributing food in the city. "At a time when needs continue to grow, humanitarian resources are shrinking," Derk Segaar, special Sudan envoy for the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, told a U.N. briefing in Geneva this week. Pressure is mounting on the international community to act. On Tuesday, a group of more than 20 U.S. senators wrote to Secretary of State Marco Rubio urging him to take steps to prevent mass atrocities in el-Obeid. "While we welcome the State Department's expression of concern about the escalating situation in el-Obeid, words are not enough," the letter, signed by Democratic Sens. Tim Kaine, Bernie Sanders and Adam Schiff, said. "The encirclement and systematic crippling of resources in el-Obeid increasingly parallels el-Fasher," the letter continued. The senators also urged the administration to stop selling arms to the United Arab Emirates, which has been accused of supporting the RSF. Reeves agreed that such action from the U.S. is critical. "Until the United Arab Emirates is called out and dissuaded from pursuing its grotesquely destructive policy in Sudan," he told NPR, "we're going to see this war continue." Sudan war Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Politics Senate Homeland Security committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress Trump's Terms Trump's third check-up at Walter Reed raises more questions about his health : Trump's Terms Family Amid cost of living stress, many parents are supporting children well into adulthood Europe Drone with explosives found at German airport, official sees 'new quality' of threat News Frontier Airlines plane strikes and kills pedestrian Sports Gianni Infantino gets internal support at crisis meeting to remain as FIFA president More Stories From NPR State of the World from NPR A Zulu-language Netflix drama is a surprise global binge-watch Africa Netflix-viewers are binge-watching South African series 'The Polygamist.' Here's why Africa Ebola death toll in DR Congo surpasses 1,000 Global Health Ebola is spreading faster in eastern Congo than it can be tracked, as deaths pass 700 Global Health Ebola death toll reaches 600, as new cases suspected in other parts of Congo State of the World from NPR What it’s like to be a healthcare worker at the center of an Ebola outbreak Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Family Amid cost of living stress, many parents are supporting children well into adulthood Middle East conflict Iran aims to ban U.S. and Israeli ships from Strait of Hormuz and charge others a toll Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after The NPR news quiz Who or what is 'taking a step back from visibility'? The quiz knows National Trump signs 2 immigration actions to curb 'birth tourism,' limit birthright citizenship The Ripple Effect Why Andy Cohen is a Deadhead for life NPR Editors' Picks National When tragedy strikes, America's wildland firefighters ask, was it 'somebody that we loved?' Asia Student kills at least 6 in a shooting at a high school in Thailand, authorities say Technology Court orders Instagram and Facebook's Meta to pay $567M to address kids' mental health online Sources & Methods Did Iran hack U.S. water systems? / Cyberwarfare abroad / Ukraine’s air defense gap Research News Sticky or slippery? Snails can change their slime to meet the moment Politics The park service says Trump's arch would obstruct historic sites. Could it be moved? Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices