McDonald's names Skye Anderson as its U.S. president Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Restaurants McDonald's names company veteran Skye Anderson as its U.S. president as growth in its largest market slows Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 7:01 AM EDT Updated Tue, Aug 4 2026 10:32 AM EDT Amelia Lucas @Thxamelian WATCH LIVE Key Points McDonald's has named Skye Anderson as its latest U.S. president. Anderson has been with the company for 26 years and succeeds Joe Erlinger in the role. McDonald's quarterly earnings topped Wall Street's estimates, but its revenue fell short of expectations. In this article MCD Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Skye Anderson, president of McDonald's USA Source: McDonald's McDonald's announced that company veteran Skye Anderson will lead its U.S. business, effective Tuesday, as the company tries to win over cost-conscious diners in its largest market. "I look forward to working closely with her and the U.S. leadership team to help accelerate performance and unlock the significant opportunity in front of us, and I have tremendous confidence that she is the ideal leader for this next phase of our U.S. business," McDonald's CEO Chris Kempczinski said in a statement. Earlier this year, Anderson was named chief operating officer for McDonald's USA. Before that, she led the company's Global Business Services segment, which was created with the aim of making its corporate operations more efficient and using the restaurant giant's scale. She also spent four years in charge of McDonald's U.S. West Zone; in that role, she increased average restaurant unit cash flow by $100,000 and drove same-store sales growth of more than 30%, according to the company. Anderson has been with the company for 26 years. "I've had the opportunity to work closely with Skye throughout much of her career, and I've repeatedly turned to her to lead some of our most important businesses and transformation efforts because she's a proven change agent who can act with urgency to mobilize our System," Kempczinski said. Anderson succeeds Joe Erlinger, who has held the role for more than six years. Erlinger will stay on as an advisor through early 2027. McDonald's also reported its second-quarter results on Tuesday. The company's earnings topped Wall Street's estimates, but its revenue fell short of analysts' expectations. U.S. same-store sales grew just 0.8%, and traffic to its domestic restaurants fell during the quarter. Broadly, McDonald's has outperformed U.S. rivals by leaning into value meals and buzzy promotions to attract diners. But a successful marketing move — like its tie-in meal with the "Minecraft" movie during the year-ago period — means that the burger chain has to keep surpassing its own wins to grow same-store sales. In early June, the company unveiled a new growth strategy as it aims to become diners' first option. The plan includes menu innovation that elevates taste and quality, listening to how consumers interact with brands, and a new restaurant design. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by