Appeals court says Trump lacks authority to build White House ballroom, teeing up Supreme Court fight - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War UFO Files World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War UFO Files World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Politics Appeals court says Trump lacks authority to build White House ballroom, teeing up Supreme Court fight By Jacob Rosen , Jacob Rosen Justice Department Reporter Jake Rosen is a reporter covering the Department of Justice. He was previously a campaign digital reporter covering President Trump's 2024 campaign and also served as an associate producer for "Face the Nation with Margaret Brennan." Read Full Bio Jacob Rosen , Arden Farhi Arden Farhi Washington bureau managing editor Arden Farhi is the managing editor for CBS News' Washington bureau. He has covered several presidential campaigns and the Obama, Trump and Biden administrations. His executive producer credits include "The Takeout with Major Garrett" and the CBS News original podcast "Agent of Betrayal," and his work has been recognized with two Emmy Awards, a DuPont Award and a NY Festivals gold medal. Read Full Bio Arden Farhi Updated on: August 7, 2026 / 5:31 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Washington — A federal appeals court on Friday said the Trump White House lacks the authority to unilaterally construct a new 90,000-square-foot ballroom where the East Wing once stood, finding that the $400 million project requires congressional approval. President Trump quickly said he would appeal the ruling directly to the Supreme Court, setting up a showdown before the justices over the ballroom's controversial construction. In a 2-1 decision , a panel on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit sided with a lower court in ruling that the White House "very likely" lacked authority to demolish and rebuild the East Wing. The judges said Congress has "full constitutional control over federal property and the funding of its maintenance and development," and noted an "absence of any express or implied authorization" that grants President Trump the ability to construct the ballroom. "Each President is a temporary tenant, not the owner, of the White House and its Executive Residence. The President has no — and claims no — constitutionally assigned authority over that property, which is designed and maintained for the use of all Presidents, current and future, and for the American people," the judges wrote in their opinion . "We are aware of no instance in American history in which a President unilaterally and using privately collected funds demolished substantial portions of the White House that Congress authorized to be built and American taxpayers paid for," the judges said. "Until now." Construction continues on the East Wing ballroom project at the White House on Aug. 6, 2026. Kevin Carter/Getty Images Judges Patricia Millett and Bradley Garcia wrote the majority opinion. Judge Neomi Rao, who was nominated to the federal bench by Mr. Trump, dissented. Millett and Garcia were nominated by Presidents Barack Obama and Joe Biden, respectively. The judges stayed their decision for 14 days to give the government the chance to appeal. "This holding has nothing at all to do with whether the proposed ballroom is desirable, or not, as a matter of policy," the majority wrote. "This ruling does not even necessarily mean that the Defendants may not ultimately construct the ballroom. What it does mean is that the Defendants may not do so during the district court's expeditious litigation without securing Congress's authorization, as the Constitution and laws require." In her dissent, Rao wrote that the National Trust for Historic Preservation, which sued in lower court to block Mr. Trump's project, did not have proper legal standing to bring the lawsuit. Rao accused the lower court judge who initially blocked the construction, and her colleagues, of "judicial overreach." Reacting to the decision, Mr. Trump wrote in a post on Truth Social that the administration "will be immediately appealing to the United States Supreme Court" and called the ruling "horrendous, politically motivated, and unlawful." "This unjust decision must be overturned by the Supreme Court in its entirety," the president wrote. He claimed it "severely jeopardizes the lives and welfare of the people who work, and will be working, at the White House," because halting work on the ballroom would impact construction of the underground bunker that is part of the project. However, the lower court's ruling that the appeals panel upheld explicitly allows work on the presidential bunker to continue. In a statement, Brent Leggs, the president and CEO of the National Trust for Historic Preservation, said he was "pleased" with the ruling. "This decision is particularly meaningful as we celebrate the 250th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence and advocate for renewed protections for historic preservation," Leggs said. "The White House, a global landmark that symbolizes American identity and the ideals of democracy, belongs to the American people. The National Trust for Historic Preservation and its partners are proud to defend this irreplaceable monument on behalf of all Americans." The legal battle over the ballroom In March, U.S. District Judge Richard Leon ruled that a legal challenge brought by a preservation group that sued to block Mr. Trump's construction project was likely to succeed on the merits, because "no statute" that the government used to justify the construction "comes close to giving the President the authority he claims to have." Mr. Trump tore down the East Wing last October and began construction without congressional approval. The administration contended in court filings that a statute permitting the White House to perform routine maintenance and repairs to the executive mansion provides a legal justification for the project. Acting Attorney General Todd Blanche also argued in court filings that the panel should order the resumption of construction because the recent attempted attack at the White House Correspondents' Association Dinner in April underscored the need for a secure ballroom on White House grounds. After the Trump administration appealed the initial ruling, the appellate judges ordered Leon to reconsider the possible national security implications of halting the construction. Weeks later, he amended his ruling, finding that above-ground work on the East Wing must stop, but underground construction could continue. In April, the panel granted an administrative stay sought by the Justice Department that allowed all White House ballroom construction to continue while the court considered briefs and heard arguments last month. The National Trust for Historic Preservation sued the administration late last year for allegedly failing to adhere to federal guidelines prior to demolishing the East Wing and breaking ground on a ballroom. The Trust also questioned the $400 million project's funding mechanism, which the president claims is largely from private donations. The ballroom project came together quickly after Mr. Trump announced it last summer. A panel of the U.S. Commission of Fine Arts, filled with the president's allies, voted unanimously to approve the ballroom proposal in February. The National Park Service has said construction could wrap up by mid-2028. The project has drawn scrutiny from congressional Democrats and preservation groups who argue that the Trump administration was making major changes to the White House without enough public input. The administration has defended the project, casting it as a useful addition to the complex and part of a long line of alterations to the White House. More from CBS News Trump issues new executive orders aimed at birthright citizenship Democratic Rep. Gluesenkamp Perez and Trump-backed Republican advance in Washington primary Trump announces $180 million to boost mining education Murkowski says she'll vote against Blanche's nomination for attorney general Go deeper with The Free Press MAGA Lobbyists’ Advice to Clients: Help Pay for Trump’s Big, Beautiful Ballroom Jed Rubenfeld: Trump Tests His Constitutional Limits In: Donald Trump White House © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Trump to appeal ballroom ruling to SCOTUS Trump says he'll appeal to Supreme Court after judges block White House ballroom construction 02:33 Trump says he'll appeal to Supreme Court after judges block White House ballroom construction (02:33) Trump issues new executive orders aimed at birthright citizenship Democratic Rep. Gluesenkamp Perez and Trump-backed Republican advance in Washington primary Trump announces $180 million to boost mining education MAGA Lobbyists’ Advice to Clients: Help Pay for Trump’s Big, Beautiful Ballroom Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue