Trump’s Gaza Board of Peace issues first building contract – for a military base | Gaza | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Support the Guardian Last chance to fund independent journalism with 50% off Claim discount Claim discount Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Palestinians use a digger to recover bodies under the rubble in devastated Gaza City earlier this year. The Board of Peace is no longer talking of reconstructing the whole strip. Photograph: Anadolu/Getty Images View image in fullscreen Palestinians use a digger to recover bodies under the rubble in devastated Gaza City earlier this year. The Board of Peace is no longer talking of reconstructing the whole strip. Photograph: Anadolu/Getty Images Gaza Trump’s Gaza Board of Peace issues first building contract – for a military base Exclusive: Louisiana firm awarded tender to build rudimentary outpost to house Moroccan troops Aram Roston in Washington Thu 6 Aug 2026 08.00 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 15.42 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Donald Trump’s Board of Peace, which was set up in January to oversee the reconstruction of Gaza , has finally issued its first construction contract in the devastated territory: a project to build a rudimentary 150-person military outpost to house Moroccan troops, a source familiar with the matter told the Guardian. The contract, which has not yet been finalised, was awarded to Arkel International, a Louisiana-based firm that has previously carried out work with the US government in countries such as Iraq. The Board of Peace is chaired by the US president and led by a team that includes his son-in-law Jared Kushner and friend Steve Witkoff. In an email, a Board of Peace official said the board and a group of Palestinian technocrats installed to oversee Gaza “are in the final stages of preparing several contract awards. None have been finalised.” The Palestinian group is known as the National Committee for the Administration of Gaza . The official said “one prospective contract concerns facilities to support the international stabilisation force (ISF), which will assist in implementing the roadmap’s security and governance arrangements”. They added: “This contract will be one of many that are essential for the future of Gaza .” Trump’s Board of Peace plans to grant itself sweeping immunity, documents show Read more The award comes just days after Trump announced that Hamas had agreed to disarm, though there are considerable questions about how the group would give up its guns. Israel has opposed the plan, and increased airstrikes in Gaza after Trump’s announcement . The Guardian reported in July that the board’s original Gaza reconstruction had shrunk dramatically from an ambitious blueprint to rebuild the whole territory to a small pilot project in the south of the strip. The base now being planned is just 100 metres by 120 metres and is intended to house a contingent of Moroccan troops, who would rotate from a base in Israel, the source said. It would lie in the 60% of Gaza’s territory that the Israeli army directly controls. Israeli forces have also created a buffer zone beyond that area. The source said the base was about a mile from the Israeli border and would have a “quick extraction route” in case the small force came under attack. View image in fullscreen Donald Trump’s original grandiose vision of a reconstructed Gaza is displayed by the president at the World Economic Forum meeting at Davos on 22 January. The UN resolution authorising the Board of Peace had approved establishing an “international stabilisation force” for Gaza, and there have been varying reports on which country would provide these troops. Morocco has promised a small contingent, but the legal framework for the ISF has yet to be finalised, and it is not clear when the deployment would begin. In earlier contract plans seen by the Guardian, the 150-person base was the first phase of a plan to build a 5,000-person military base in Gaza for the ISF . This base would have included “vehicle fighting positions” and a perimeter berm – or raised defensive bank – and would have rudimentary facilities suitable for short-term deployments. The earlier contract said the first phase would consist of “tents and cots for forces to sleep, as well as chemical toilets and handwashing stations. At this phase, this is what we would consider habitable.” Trump announced in February 2025 that the US would “take over” and “own” Gaza, although the agreement that set up the Board of Peace fell short of that. At the board’s first meeting in January, Kushner unveiled a “master plan” to build “New Gaza” with an expansive waterfront city with gleaming mixed-use towers. “It could be a hope, it could be a destination. A lot of industry,” he said. At least 80% of Gaza’s buildings were damaged or destroyed in the war. Ten months after the ceasefire, most of the territory’s 2 million people are still living in makeshift and unsanitary camps. Explore more on these topics Gaza Israel Donald Trump Palestine Middle East and north Africa Jared Kushner Trump administration news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Greenland issues ‘strong warning’ as Trump-linked oil firm prepares to drill Super-rich complain but experts welcome Mamdani’s pied-à-terre tax ‘Old racist wine in a new bottle’: Black academics respond to Jason Arday affair Is it OK to talk about Ariana Grande’s body? There is no right answer Rest assured, the new CDC director thinks ‘abortion surveillance’ is essential Arwa Mahdawi Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)