What will happen when a SpaceX rocket collides with the Moon? - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat US & Canada What will happen when a SpaceX rocket collides with the Moon? Image source, AFP via Getty Images Image caption, The rocket component that will strike the Moon is the upper section of a SpaceX Falcon 9 By Kayla Epstein and Max Matza Published 4 August 2026, 10:13 BST The Moon has endured countless blows over millions of years. Asteroids and meteors have given the satellite its signature pockmarked surface and network of craters. More recently, it has also experienced impacts from the plucky little probes and landers that Earthbound space agencies have sent hurtling its way. Now on Wednesday, scientists expect the Moon will experience yet another collision, this time from a drifting SpaceX rocket that has been travelling at around 2.43 kilometres per second, or about 5,400mph. The upper stage (section) of one of SpaceX's Falcon 9 rockets will "impact" the Moon on 5 August, according to Nasa's Centre for Near-Earth Object Studies (CNEOS). The US space agency reached the conclusion after independent astronomers, using public data, noted that a portion of the rocket from a January 2025 launch was on an accidental collision course with the Moon. "There is no danger to Earth," said spokesperson Jimi Russell. "Nasa will continue to track the booster for training purposes, as well as later observe the impact site for scientific purposes." Why is space junk such a big problem? SpaceX launched this specific Falcon 9 rocket as part of a US and Japanese mission to carry a pair of lunar landers and scientific equipment to the Moon last year. Part of the Falcon 9 is reusable and designed to return back to Earth for its next mission. But parts of the rocket are shed in space and remain there, stuck in orbit unless they eventually collide with another celestial body. The piece in question is the upper stage of the rocket, and is about the size of a five-storey building, with a mass on Earth of at least 4,000kg (8,800 lbs). Astronomer Bill Gray, who first discovered the trajectory, wrote on his blog that he believed het object will land near the Einstein Crater, which is on the part of the Moon that receives daylight and is visible from Earth. He predicts it will create a crater more than 17m (56ft) in diameter. Image source, Getty Images/Nasa Image caption, The Moon's surface bears witness to countless other impacts over a period of millions of years The impending collision - predicted to happen at about 02:35 EDT (06:35 GMT) on Wednesday - is expected to captivate astronomers, both amateur and professional. "It's something really huge smashing into the Moon. It's not remotely dangerous, we can just watch the show," says Dr Matt Bothwell, public astronomer at the University of Cambridge. "It's going to impact and it's going to send up a huge plume of dust, maybe 50km into the air or more, and that's going to spread sideways over time," Bothwell said. Given the Moon's lack of atmosphere and far weaker gravitational pull, the moment of impact will be "more impressive than any [similar] explosion on Earth", Bothwell said. Nothing will slow the object down, like the atmosphere would do here on Earth - and nothing will prevent the estimated million kilograms in debris from rocketing up into space. While the impact will probably not be visible from Earth with the naked eye, people with access to a sophisticated telescope may be able to see a flash radiating off the Moon's surface, Bothwell said. More significant would be the educative potential of the impact, Bothwell noted. He said this moment would present a unique opportunity to study what happens when an object hits the Moon. Scientists are therefore gearing up to watch the event closely. Big telescopes in the Americas, plus Nasa's Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter and South Korea's Danuri probe, will track the flash, plume and new crater, and a citizen‑science project is signing up keen amateurs to film the impact too. By catching the dust plume in action, astronomers hope to turn this accidental crash into a useful experiment. Watching how much material gets thrown up, how high it goes and how it falls back should sharpen their models of lunar impacts, and even give clues about what lies just beneath the surface at the impact site, where fresh subsurface material will be exposed for the first time. Figure caption, The space junk clean-up (2018) Bothwell, the astronomer, also said the collision would provide a cautionary tale about the issue of ever-accumulating, human-made space clutter. "I think more people should be more worried about space debris," Bothwell said. "Every single year we put more stuff in orbit. Sometimes the satellites just collide, and they shatter into more pieces. I think there's a worry about a runaway cascade, if we put so much stuff in orbit." According to the European Space Agency (ESA), there are around 54,000 objects floating in space that measure larger than 10cm. In total, humans have launched about 17,000 tonnes of objects into space since the Space Age began in 1957. The last dead rocket to impact the Moon was in 2022, when the Chinese Long March 3C upper stage from the 2014 Chang'e 5‑T1 mission hit the far side of the Moon - which faces away from Earth. Decades earlier, Nasa launched objects into the Moon on purpose, in order to collect data for the Apollo missions. Additional reporting by Pallab Ghosh Related topics The Moon Space exploration Nasa More on this story Abandoned rocket 'hits the Moon' - scientists Published 4 March 2022 The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:01 Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack. 00:01:01, play video Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack 0:57 Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites. 00:00:57, play video Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport 1:01 What are the 'luteal uglies'? 00:01:01, play video What are the 'luteal uglies'? 0:59 Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 00:00:59, play video Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 0:40 US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak. 00:00:40, play video US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak 0:35 PC Harper's mother on early release for killers. 00:00:35, play video PC Harper's mother on early release for killers 0:41 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti. 00:00:41, play video 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti 0:54 Why Scotland's exam results come first. 00:00:54, play video Why Scotland's exam results come first 1:06 Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 00:01:06, play video Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 0:39 Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests. 00:00:39, play video Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests 1:09 Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos. 00:01:09, play video Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos 0:25 Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas. 00:00:25, play video Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas 0:45 Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer. 00:00:45, play video Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer 0:55 Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight. 00:00:55, play video Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight 0:27 Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend. 00:00:27, play video Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend 0:59 How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president. 00:00:59, play video How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president 1:57 Are some schools taking discipline too far? 00:01:57, play video Are some schools taking discipline too far? Top stories Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack Published 4 hours ago More than 170 migrants rescued after boat catches fire in Channel Published 2 hours ago Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece Published 2 hours ago More to explore Which area has the best grades? Key takeaways from Scotland's exam results How to avoid the worst of the Italian heat I left my wife and twins behind - why this Nigerian man fled South Africa Breast cancer checks missing most women under 50 who are at risk, says study There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger After three traumatic years at uni, I fear I won't get my dream nursing job Woman has pioneering womb surgery to fix 'miracle' baby with intestines outside its body Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC 'I said maybeeee...' Follow police investigations from the 999 call to conviction The return of the thrilling, award-winning drama about the CIA Tommy and John Fury debate what makes a home Most read 1 Athletes go 'missing' after Commonwealth Games ends 2 Princess Eugenie gives birth to baby girl in Portugal 3 Major search under way for boy, 13, missing at sea 4 Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack 5 Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece 6 Bono, Eddie Vedder and Hozier among mourners at Glen Hansard's funeral 7 Man 'driven insane' by noise admits killing fish 8 Care company fined for running illegal children's homes in legal first 9 Oil prices fall on hopes Strait of Hormuz could reopen 10 Ed Sheeran fined for failing to insure Aston Martin BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.