Oil rises as Iran's draft plan sees U.S. and Israel banned from Hormuz Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Oil Prices and News Oil rises as Iran's draft plan sees U.S. and Israel banned from Strait of Hormuz Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 9:00 PM EDT Updated 5 Hours Ago Justina Lee @in/justina-lee-2742aa59 WATCH LIVE Key Points Worries over oil supply disruptions continue to linger after Iran published a restrictive draft plan for the Strait of Hormuz. According to the apparent draft plan published by Iran, the country would ban U.S. and Israeli ships from transiting the strait. Meanwhile, U.S. President Donald Trump said he thinks the war in Iran will end "pretty soon." In this article @CL.1 @LCO.1 Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT A vessel is anchored off the coast of Sharjah in the United Arab Emirates on Aug. 3, 2026. AFP | Getty Images Oil rose Friday amid worries over supply disruptions after Iran published a restrictive draft plan for the Strait of Hormuz . Futures for international benchmark Brent crude for October delivery gained 1.25% to $83.52 a barrel. U.S. West Texas Intermediate futures for September advanced 1.10% at $78.14 per barrel. "Higher oil prices signaled that a further inflationary impulse from energy and the situation in the Middle East could not be discounted, sending US dollar higher and government bonds lower," Westpac said in a note. According to the apparent draft plan published by Iran, the country would ban U.S. and Israeli ships from transiting the Strait. Until compensation is paid, other nations that have harmed Iran would not be allowed to transit, according to the draft. While Iran and Oman are reportedly working on an agreement to define transit routes in the Hormuz strait, a deal still has not been announced. According to media reports, inbound traffic would transit Iranian waters while outbound traffic would go through Omani waters. "Adding to supply concerns, Ukraine struck two of Russia's major oil refineries overnight (Yaroslavl/Yanos and Bashneft's Novoil facility), and US imports of Saudi crude dropped to zero in July for the first time since 1985," according to a note by UOB. Conflicting accounts of bilateral engagement are muddying the progress of a deal to open the Hormuz strait. While U.S. President Donald Trump said in the Oval Office that the Iran will end "pretty soon," Tehran accused him of staging "theater diplomacy." Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by