Procter & Gamble to buy Thorne for $3.8 billion, CEO tells CNBC Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Household Products Procter & Gamble will acquire supplements brand Thorne for $3.8 billion, CEO tells CNBC Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 11:26 AM EDT Updated 5 Hours Ago Amelia Lucas @Thxamelian WATCH LIVE Key Points Procter & Gamble is buying supplement brand Thorne for $3.8 billion. P&G CEO Shailesh Jejurikar said the acquisition is play to grow the company's health business on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street." In this article PG Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 6:36 06:36 Procter & Gamble will acquire supplements brand Thorne, CEO says Squawk on the Street Procter & Gamble is buying supplement brand Thorne for $3.8 billion, CEO Shailesh Jejurikar said on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street." The acquisition, which is set to be announced Tuesday, is a bid for P&G to grow its health and wellness division. The consumer goods giant already owns several other supplements brands, like Metamucil, Align Probiotic and New Chapter vitamins, which are housed within a broader healthcare division that includes Oral-B and Vicks. "We are really happy with the asset itself," Jejurikar told CNBC's Sara Eisen. "It's a really well-run operation, and it's been around for a long time." Thorne was founded in 1984 and went public in late 2021 at a valuation of $525 million. L Catterton then took the company private in 2023 in a deal valued at $680 million. Its annual revenue surpassed $500 million in 2025, according to Thorne. Thorne's Magnesium Glycinate and Ginseng Plus supplements. Courtesy: Thorne Thorne CEO Colin Watts told CNBC earlier this year that it had the potential to become a billion dollar brand within the next few years. The majority of Thorne's revenue comes from shoppers under the age of 40. The supplement brand has also seen a surge in direct-to-consumer sales. In recent years, vitamins and supplements have grown in popularity as consumers look to them to improve every aspect of their health, for everything from sleep to energy levels. The "Make America Healthy Again" movement, led by Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr., has also leaned into supplements. Kennedy himself has said he takes so many vitamins that he can't remember them all. P&G is the latest consumer giant to buy a buzzy upstart in a bid to profit from the trend. Earlier this year, Unilever bought Grüns , a gummy supplement brand. Thorne will be a small piece of P&G's broader portfolio, but the deal demonstrates the company's broader aim of owning relevant, premium brands that appeal to younger consumers. In P&G's latest quarter , its volume was flat, leading to worse-than-expected revenue. Its healthcare segment was the worst performer, based on volume. Shares of P&G were trading up less than 1% in morning trading on Tuesday. watch now VIDEO 3:21 03:21 How Thorne became one of Gen Z's favorite wellness brands Retail — CNBC's Gabrielle Fonrouge contributed to this report Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by