Australia news live: Jetstar to charge passengers for overhead baggage; Labor drops so-called ‘widow tax’ | Australia news | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 5 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to key events Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters Australia news Australia news live: Jetstar to charge passengers for overhead baggage; Labor drops so-called ‘widow tax’ Airline removes carry-on weight limit but will charge for bags that don’t fit under seat. Follow today’s news live Get our breaking news email , free app or daily news podcast LIVE Updated 15s ago Nick Visser Tue 4 Aug 2026 18.16 EDT First published on Tue 4 Aug 2026 17.18 EDT Share Key events 41m ago Jetstar will begin charging at least $25 for overhead baggage space 50m ago Government drops ‘widow tax’ on negative gearing and capital gains changes 1h ago Good morning Jetstar is changing its carry-on baggage rules to charge passengers for using the overhead locker. Photograph: Yaroslav Astakhov/Alamy View image in fullscreen Jetstar is changing its carry-on baggage rules to charge passengers for using the overhead locker. Photograph: Yaroslav Astakhov/Alamy Nick Visser Tue 4 Aug 2026 18.16 EDT First published on Tue 4 Aug 2026 17.18 EDT Share From 41m ago 17.34 EDT Jetstar will begin charging at least $25 for overhead baggage space Jetstar is changing its carry-on baggage policies and will charge customers for use of the overhead compartments on its aircraft. The airline said it would remove the 7kg carry-on weight limit for bags from February 2027 and instead allow customers to bring one underseat bag like a backpack or handbag. Anyone wanting to use the overhead lockers would need to buy “priority carry-on”, which includes a second, larger bag and the chance to be among the first to board. The fees will start at $25 one-way on short flights and can vary upwards of $52 for long-haul routes. Jetstar’s CEO said the decision came amid frustration from passengers and crew that have struggled to access the overhead bins: By giving customers an underseat bag with the option to add Priority Carry-on, we can make better use of overhead locker space, streamline boarding and help more flights depart on time. Our new carry-on baggage model provides more choice to customers while helping to keep our fares low. You only pay for what you need – travelling with less means paying less, and you can always add more if you need. Jetstar airplanes. Photograph: Edgar Su/Reuters Share Updated at 17.39 EDT Key events 41m ago Jetstar will begin charging at least $25 for overhead baggage space 50m ago Government drops ‘widow tax’ on negative gearing and capital gains changes 1h ago Good morning now 18.16 EDT Donna Lu Chris Bowen to announce expansion of renewables scheme to encourage mid-scale solar installation The minister for energy and climate change, Chris Bowen , will announce an expansion to the small-scale renewable energy scheme (SRES) in an address to the National Press Club today. Bowen will announce an expansion of the solar discount to include installations up to 1MW, ten times greater than the previous limit of 100kW, which will “slash the installation costs for commercial, industrial and agricultural buildings by around 20%”. The scheme’s expansion is hoped to encourage more mid-scale solar installation, what Bowen will describe as the “missing middle in Australia’s energy transition”. View image in fullscreen Chris Bowen. Photograph: Mick Tsikas/AAP On per capita terms, Australia is a world leader in residential solar, with 22GW installed as of last December. Businesses have only installed about a quarter of that – 5.6GW – despite consuming more electricity than households, according to a June analysis . Bowen is also expected to request the Australian Energy Market Commission consider a rule change, to require the network providers to “approve commercial and industrial solar much more expeditiously and efficiently than they have been doing”. Today’s announcements come after a $100m federal investment through the Clean Energy Finance Corporation, announced on Monday, to support the development of up to 16 hybrid solar, battery storage and battery retrofit projects. Share 14m ago 18.01 EDT Pocock shocked by gambling inquiry testimony David Pocock went on to say he has been shocked by the testimony in the parliamentary inquiry into the gambling industry. He told the ABC: We’re the biggest losers, per capita, in the world. The last two days has shown us exactly why. You have a predatory industry that is doing everything to, one, normalise gambling against Australians, and, two, to absolutely milk people for their money. The senator said gambling reform is not a “left versus right” issue, adding: This is vested interests and their stranglehold on the major parties. And particularly on the prime minister. That is what’s stopping the government doing what the vast majority of Australians want. … This is a real opportunity for the Senate, for the Coalition, for the crossbench, to say to the government – we’re going to actually protect young Australians. Share Updated at 18.06 EDT 27m ago 17.48 EDT Pocock says housing correction would be ‘good thing’ for the country Independent senator David Pocock said a housing correction “would be a good thing for our country”, adding house prices cannot grow at the rate they have over the past two decades. Pocock spoke to ABC News Breakfast this morning, saying: It’s kind of just become this normal thing that house prices go up at a rapid rate. I think we’ve got to ask the question – what is housing for? Housing is so fundamental to functioning as a human, to flourishing families, communities – we have to actually ensure that we can keep house prices in check over the next couple of decades while wages rise to get back to a point where housing is affordable in this country. Pocock said it was great news that Labor had released a change to negative gearing laws to better protect widows and divorcees and drop the so-called “widow tax”. View image in fullscreen Independent senator David Pocock. Photograph: Mick Tsikas/AAP Share Updated at 17.55 EDT 41m ago 17.34 EDT Jetstar will begin charging at least $25 for overhead baggage space Jetstar is changing its carry-on baggage policies and will charge customers for use of the overhead compartments on its aircraft. The airline said it would remove the 7kg carry-on weight limit for bags from February 2027 and instead allow customers to bring one underseat bag like a backpack or handbag. Anyone wanting to use the overhead lockers would need to buy “priority carry-on”, which includes a second, larger bag and the chance to be among the first to board. The fees will start at $25 one-way on short flights and can vary upwards of $52 for long-haul routes. Jetstar’s CEO said the decision came amid frustration from passengers and crew that have struggled to access the overhead bins: By giving customers an underseat bag with the option to add Priority Carry-on, we can make better use of overhead locker space, streamline boarding and help more flights depart on time. Our new carry-on baggage model provides more choice to customers while helping to keep our fares low. You only pay for what you need – travelling with less means paying less, and you can always add more if you need. View image in fullscreen Jetstar airplanes. Photograph: Edgar Su/Reuters Share Updated at 17.39 EDT 50m ago 17.26 EDT Government drops ‘widow tax’ on negative gearing and capital gains changes Krishani Dhanji Labor has announced it will drop the so-called “widow tax” in its next tranche of tax reforms after widespread pressure from the opposition and crossbench. Under the reforms to negative gearing and the capital gains tax discount announced in the May budget, a widow or divorcee would have lost their tax concession – which Labor promised to fix under subsequent legislation. It was revealed in June that, for example, if a property was owned by a couple, they would lose grandfathered exemptions to negative gearing and capital gains tax in the event of a divorce or death, and the property was transferred to one of the partners. The treasurer has also exempted beneficiaries of “genuine testamentary trusts, deceased estates and special disability trusts” from the new minimum tax on capital gains. The government will now consult on the latest changes. View image in fullscreen A house for lease in Melbourne. Photograph: Michael Currie/AAP Share Updated at 17.36 EDT 1h ago 17.18 EDT Good morning Good morning, and happy Wednesday. Nick Visser here bright and early. Here is what’s on deck. Jetstar will make it more difficult for travellers to bring carry-on baggage onboard an aircraft. The company will remove its 7kg carry-on weight limits, but impose a size-based model that will allow customers to bring just one underseat bag. An overhead bag will now cost. The federal government said it will drop the so-called “widow tax” after widespread pressure from the opposition and crossbench. Under the reforms to negative gearing and the capital gains tax discount, a widow or divorcee would have lost their tax concession. Stick with us, more on these stories soon. Share Updated at 17.31 EDT Explore more on these topics Australia news Australian politics Airline industry Jetstar Labor party Australian economy Australian foreign policy Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Labor MPs urge Albanese to go harder on gambling reform amid illicit drug and sex worker allegations 7h ago Pauline Hanson has knocked another brick out of our creaky political system. It’s not good for anybody 7h ago Trump wants ‘fair treatment’ in fight over Labor’s levy on tech giants to pay for news, US trade group warns 15h ago Sportsbet and Tabcorp deny allegations they sourced drugs and sex workers to encourage VIP clients to bet more 19h ago Full Story How does Barnaby Joyce’s support for refugees square with One Nation policies? – Full Story podcast 1d ago Luke Bateman tells inquiry gambling companies supplied him with cocaine and alcohol 2d ago Karl’s ‘great net zero debate’ was anything but – so beware Coalition claims of renewables taking over ‘two Tasmanias’ 2d ago … … comments Governor general warns of ‘growing catastrophe’ that threatens to undermine democracy in Australia 5d ago I’m running against the prime minister to stand up to a system that has facilitated the success of Pauline Hanson 6d ago … … comments Angus Taylor insists he made no payments to conservative Liberal group amid Icac investigation 7d ago Most viewed Most viewed Australia World AU politics Environment Climate crisis Indigenous Australia Immigration Media Business Health Science Tech Podcasts Newsletters News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)