White House to meet AI firms on advanced model safety | Politics News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up Economy | Politics White House to meet AI firms on advanced model safety The White House confirmed Tuesday’s meeting to address advanced model safety amid recent high-profile hacking incidents. Listen (3 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google OpenAI's models hacked the technology of two companies last week ahead of the White House meeting [File: Julia Demaree Nikhinson/AP] By Andy Hirschfeld Published On 4 Aug 2026 4 Aug 2026 The administration of United States President Donald Trump is set to meet with the country’s top artificial intelligence companies to discuss allowing the federal government more safety tests for its most advanced models amid two high-profile hackings confirmed by Anthropic and OpenAI. The meeting is set to take place on Tuesday, a White House official told Al Jazeera. Recommended Stories list of 4 items list 1 of 4 Petrol prices strain US households as oil giants Chevron, Exxon profits soar list 2 of 4 Trump administration sued by 25 states over new tariffs on trading partners list 3 of 4 US stocks near record high, oil falls as Trump claims Iran talks under way list 4 of 4 Tech giant Palantir posts ‘otherworldly’ growth despite criticism over Gaza end of list The meeting is part of a June 2 executive order that called for a new voluntary framework that would allow the federal government to have early access to advanced models for up to 30 days before public release, it said. The meeting is underscored by developments last week when OpenAI tools were responsible for a breach at a tech company, Hugging Face, and at the client of another, Modal Labs. The tools’ hacking incidents were operating outside of the purview of what they were designed to do. OpenAI did not respond to Al Jazeera’s request for comment. This comes amid claims by CEO Sam Altman on a podcast, following the Hugging Face attack, that the technology has reached “the singularity”, when AI surpasses human intelligence and becomes harder to control. He had previously said this would not be reached by 2030. Last week, Altman met with other lawmakers on Capitol Hill, including Bernie Moreno, a Republican from Ohio, and Georgia Senator Raphael Warnock. Altman also visited the White House at the time to discuss the tests. On Monday, 15 state attorneys general, all Republicans, including those from Florida, Iowa and Kansas, called on OpenAI to maintain documents on how its AI system escaped containment. Advertisement In a letter to Altman on Monday, Iowa Attorney General Brenna Bird wrote: “OpenAI conducted that testing in what should have been an isolated environment, with no possibility that the agent could access the Internet. Within that purportedly isolated environment, OpenAI allowed the agent to operate ‘without production classifiers used to prevent models from pursuing high-risk cyber activity,’ which one commentator summarised as ‘a lot of words for “no guardrails,” essentially.’” Anthropic also announced last week that it had identified three separate incidents in which its model, Claude, was able to reach the internet and gain unauthorised access to an undisclosed set of organisations. The Dario Amodei-led AI giant said that the hacking incidents occurred in a “third-party evaluation environment”, according to a release from the company. Anthropic has been in the crosshairs of the White House over its efforts to restrict the government’s use of its technology for autonomous weapons and mass surveillance. Anthropic did not respond to Al Jazeera’s request for comment. Google is expected to be in attendance, according to reporting by the tech outlet The Information. Google did not respond to Al Jazeera’s request for comment. Facebook, WhatsApp, and Instagram parent company Meta were also invited, according to reporting by the Reuters news agency. The White House did not specifically say the Mark Zuckerberg-led tech giant would be in attendance. Meta did not respond to Al Jazeera’s request for comment. On Wall Street, Meta’s stock is tumbling in midday trading. It is down by 0.2 percent since the market opened. Google parent company Alphabet, on the other hand, is in positive territory. It is up 1.1 percent. Anthropic and OpenAI are not publicly traded. Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network