New Mexico court orders Meta to pay $567m over harms to children’s mental health | Meta | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us UK US politics World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Football Newsletters Business Environment UK politics Science Tech Global development Obituaries Mark Zuckerberg, the Meta chief executive, outside court in Los Angeles in February. Photograph: Jill Connelly/Getty Images View image in fullscreen Mark Zuckerberg, the Meta chief executive, outside court in Los Angeles in February. Photograph: Jill Connelly/Getty Images Meta New Mexico court orders Meta to pay $567m over harms to children’s mental health Ruling comes as part of second phase of landmark trial that found social media company enabled harm against users Uwa Ede-Osifo and agencies Thu 6 Aug 2026 22.24 EDT First published on Thu 6 Aug 2026 20.22 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google A New Mexico court has ordered Meta, the parent company of Facebook, to pay $567m into a fund aimed at redressing adverse mental health impacts from the social media giant’s platforms. The Thursday ruling comes as a part of the second phase of a landmark trial the social media giant lost in March. At the time, a jury found that the company knowingly harmed children’s mental health and concealed what it knew about child sexual exploitation on its platforms, and imposed the maximum penalty : a $375m fine. The ruling on Thursday is an addition to that fine, bringing the total amount Meta is responsible for to $942m. Judge Bryan Biedscheid said the bulk of the money – $420m – would be used for treatment services for young people in New Mexico. The rest will go toward awareness and prevention, screening services and other costs over the next five years. The March trial was the first to find Meta liable for acts committed on its platform, and followed a 2023 Guardian investigation that revealed how Facebook and Instagram had become marketplaces for child sex trafficking. Several former Meta moderators told the Guardian there were instances where they flagged harmful content related to child grooming, but the cases were not escalated. In the second phase of the trial, which began in May, prosecutors had asked the judge to impose fundamental changes at Meta aimed at reining in addictive features, improving age verification, and preventing child sexual exploitation through default privacy settings and closer oversight. The judge has also ordered other changes, including that Facebook and Instagram build banner and informational screens to clearly explain its protection features, best practices, and tools to address inappropriate comment. Those changes, and an educational campaign in New Mexico, would be subject to review by the state. The court said federal children’s privacy laws prevent Meta from applying age-verification tools to children under 13. The court also noted that ordering verification of children’s ages only for Meta and not other social media companies would be “inequitable and unduly injurious” to the company. Instead, the court ordered Meta to continue to improve its age-assurance tools in New Mexico, which include using artificial intelligence to determine people’s age based on signals such as who their friends are and what types of content they post and consume. Meta must also attempt to develop a dedicated “under-13-years-of-age prediction model” in the next two years. Additionally, Meta should also request proof of age for Instagram and Facebook users in New Mexico it estimates to be under 13. If it determines a user to be under 13, or under 18 but without being able to estimate a specific age, Meta must treat the user as under 13 or under 18 until the user verifies their age. The company must also partner with schools or a child safety organization to create a reporting portal where school staff can flag users who may be under 13. And it must delete personal information it has collected on users under 13. The court also ordered Meta to report on its progress twice a year on how it is complying with the abatement measures. New Mexico attorney general Raúl Torrez hailed the judgment. “This case has always been about protecting children, standing up for families, and making sure that one of the world’s largest technology companies cannot profit from practices that endanger young people without consequence,” Torrez said in a statement. “Today’s decision is a victory for every parent who has worried about what social media is doing to their child and every child who deserves to grow up safer online.” A Meta spokesperson said in a statement to the Guardian on Thursday that the company “disagrees with the ruling” and plans to appeal. “We work hard to keep people safe on our platforms and have been transparent about the challenges of identifying and removing bad actors and harmful content. We remain confident in our record of protecting teens online and will continue to defend ourselves against claims that misrepresent the facts,” the statement continued. The total amount Meta is responsible for is a small fraction of of its annual profit, which was about $60bn in 2025. Still, it represents another setback for Meta as it faces a wave of accusations from families of children harmed by social media. The company is embroiled in a slew of lawsuits in other US states over its alleged harms to young people. In a trial in Tennessee that began last month , the state has accused the company of disregarding internal warnings about teenagers’ compulsive use of Instagram, which has been linked to eating disorders and depression, among other adverse effects. Meta is also gearing up for a trial later this month in federal court in Oakland, California. What comes out of New Mexico is the first of many dominoes that could fall for Meta, said Laura Edelson, an assistant professor at Northeastern University focusing on social media and cybersecurity. “America is not going to pass a law that bans social media,” Edelson said. “But if companies like Meta know they’re causing harm to users by product design, the states are finally finding a way to rein this in.” Explore more on these topics Meta Instagram New Mexico Mark Zuckerberg Facebook Social networking news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed UK US politics World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Football Newsletters Business Environment UK politics Science Tech Global development Obituaries News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)