White House declassifies info on secret FBI probe into whether Trump fired Comey at Russia's behest, official says - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Michigan Senate Primary World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War Michigan Senate Primary World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Politics White House declassifies info on secret FBI probe into whether Trump fired Comey at Russia's behest, official says By Jennifer Jacobs , Jennifer Jacobs Senior White House reporter Jennifer Jacobs is a senior White House reporter at CBS News. Read Full Bio Jennifer Jacobs , Kristin Brown Updated on: August 5, 2026 / 9:49 AM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google The White House on Wednesday released declassified information saying the FBI opened an investigation into whether President Trump was acting as an asset for Russia when he fired FBI Director James Comey, a theory an administration official said was not backed up by evidence. The official said the investigation, known as Oxferd Comma, was a subcomponent of Crossfire Hurricane, the FBI probe into potential collusion between the 2016 Trump campaign and the Russian government — an investigation that has long drawn Mr. Trump's ire. The predicate of Oxferd Comma was the newly elected president's decision to fire Comey in 2017. The case was marked sensitive, which is generally done to keep a case off the books from other agents, the official said. The agents who opened the case said they believe it was going to be the least intrusive method to address a serious national security risk. Oxferd Comma was eventually rolled into Special Counsel Robert Mueller's larger probe into Mr. Trump, the official said, and was later found not to have any merit when the rest of the Mueller investigation was closed down. "I was unaware that the predicate for the obstruction included a claim that Donald Trump was somehow acting on behalf of Vladimir Putin," the official said. "The short of it is, almost everything in the FBI's possession at that point had debunked or ruled out that Trump or his campaign was colluding with Russia at that time." Oxferd Comma Page of Oxferd Comma Page of Oxferd Comma Page of Mr. Trump fired Comey in May 2017, just months into his first term as president. The White House initially cited Comey's handling of the investigation into Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's emails as the reason for his dismissal, though Mueller's report claimed Mr. Trump was frustrated with Comey for refusing to publicly state that the president was not personally under investigation for potential ties to Russia. Comey's firing ended up as the catalyst that set a larger investigation into Mr. Trump in motion. After Comey's dismissal, then-Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein appointed Mueller as a special counsel to investigate claims of Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election, and any potential ties to the Trump campaign. Mueller ultimately did not find evidence that members of the Trump campaign "conspired or coordinated" with Russia, though he did describe some contacts between the campaign and Russian government-linked individuals. Mr. Trump has frequently accused the FBI and other intelligence agencies of conducting unethical investigations into his campaigns and presidency, and has vowed to launch probes of his own. He has long criticized Comey, calling him a "dirty cop," while Comey has lashed out at Mr. Trump, calling him "morally unfit" to be president. Earlier this year, Comey was charged with threatening Mr. Trump's life by posting photos of seashells arranged to form the numbers "86 47." Comey has alleged he is being vindictively and selectively prosecuted, which the Justice Department has denied. Last year, he was separately charged with making false statements to Congress, though the indictment was dismissed. More from CBS News FBI not conducting civil rights probe into ICE shooting in Maine, sources say House Ethics probing Rep. Max Miller for alleged domestic violence, drug use Behind closed doors, Trump, White House aides hope Rep. Max Miller exits race Democratic Rep. Gluesenkamp Perez and Trump-backed Republican advance in Washington primary Go deeper with The Free Press What Happens After Trump?: Why Tim Miller Thinks Politics Can’t Go Back The Trump Administration’s Latest Attack on Free Speech In: Federal Bureau of Investigation James Comey Trump Administration © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Info on secret FBI probe into Comey's firing White House declassifies info on secret FBI probe into Trump firing of Comey 05:32 White House declassifies info on secret FBI probe into Trump firing of Comey (05:32) FBI not conducting civil rights probe into ICE shooting in Maine, sources say House Ethics probing Rep. Max Miller for alleged domestic violence, drug use Behind closed doors, Trump, White House aides hope Rep. Max Miller exits race What Happens After Trump?: Why Tim Miller Thinks Politics Can’t Go Back Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue