FIFA President Gianni Infantino denies claims UEFA paid off alleged lover | Football News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up Sport | Football FIFA President Gianni Infantino denies claims UEFA paid off alleged lover However, UEFA says a ‘departure payment’ was made to a female employee when Infantino was the body’s general-secretary. Listen (3 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google Infantino gestures during a visit to a sports complex in Cali, Colombia, on August 7, 2026 [Jaime Saldarriaga/AFP] By Al Jazeera Staff and AFP Published On 8 Aug 2026 8 Aug 2026 Gianni Infantino has “strongly” denied claims that a severance payment was made by UEFA to a female employee who was allegedly in a relationship with him during his previous role as the organisation’s general-secretary. “FIFA President Gianni Infantino strongly denies these allegations, and they are categorically untrue. Any insinuation of inappropriate conduct or violation of statutes or regulations is defamatory,” a spokesman for the now FIFA president told the Daily Telegraph, who first reported the claims. Recommended Stories list of 4 items list 1 of 4 Atletico Madrid will not sell Alvarez amid Barcelona interest, says Simeone list 2 of 4 Arsenal complete signing of Newcastle midfielder Bruno Guimaraes list 3 of 4 Messi will decide when he retires, says Argentina FA chief list 4 of 4 South Korea FA apologises over ‘sexual services’ allegations end of list “No employee at UEFA and FIFA has ever raised a complaint regarding Mr Infantino’s behaviour because there never was an incident where he was involved.” However, UEFA has issued a statement saying that “a departure payment was made to the individual in question”, in addition to fees for an MBA course, which it said was “in line” with regulations. The Daily Telegraph reported on Friday that UEFA had paid a six-figure sum to the woman, who allegedly had an affair with the married Infantino during his tenure as general-secretary at European football’s governing body. FIFA did not immediately reply to Al Jazeera’s request for comment. The allegations come as the 56-year-old Italian-Swiss lawyer faces a career-threatening backlash over his aborted plans to sell off stakes in FIFA competitions to private investors. UEFA, where Infantino served as general-secretary from 2009 to 2016, is now in open conflict with FIFA and, on Thursday, doubled down on last Saturday’s statement saying it no longer has “confidence” in Infantino. Advertisement UEFA repeated its threat of boycotting the World Cups and one of its member associations, the Norwegian Football Federation (NFF) called for Infantino to go immediately . “[The NFF] are going to ask the FIFA president to resign now,” said its straight-talking president, Lise Klaveness, on Friday. However, the football associations of Mexico and Argentina were the latest to throw their weight behind the embattled world football chief, following the Confederation of African Football’s unanimous backing of Infantino’s leadership on Thursday. South America’s CONMEBOL, meanwhile, expressed concerns over the “repeated unilateral actions taken without resorting to dialogue”. Infantino will almost certainly try to carry on his campaign to be elected for a fourth and final term in Rabat next March. Infantino, who had spent the past turbulent week among friends in Morocco, who are cohosting the 2030 World Cup, is, for the moment, the only candidate. The deadline for nominations is November 18. Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network