Trump-endorsed Rep. Andy Ogles projected to lose GOP primary in Tennessee - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Politics Trump-endorsed Rep. Andy Ogles projected to lose GOP primary in Tennessee By Joe Walsh Joe Walsh Senior Editor, Politics Joe Walsh is a senior editor for digital politics at CBS News. Joe previously covered breaking news for Forbes and local news in Boston. Read Full Bio Joe Walsh Updated on: August 6, 2026 / 11:29 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Two-term Rep. Andy Ogles lost the Republican primary for his Tennessee House seat, the Associated Press projects, despite securing an endorsement from President Trump. With just over 80% of votes counted in Thursday's primary, Ogles trailed former state Agriculture Commissioner Charlie Hatcher by just over six points, according to results compiled by the AP. It marks the second loss this week by a congressional candidate backed by Mr. Trump, whose endorsement typically carries significant sway in Republican primaries. In a Michigan GOP House primary two days earlier, Trump-endorsed candidate Amir Hassan lost to Thomas Smith , who had suspended his campaign weeks earlier. In a victory speech Thursday night, Hatcher said Ogles had called him to concede and offered to help him transition into the job. "I don't know what D.C. is going to be like. It's going to be a new environment for me," Hatcher told Nikki Hauser, a reporter for Nashville CBS affiliate WTVF. "I appreciate anybody that can mentor me and help me in that process ... He was nice enough to do that, and I accepted it." A member of the hard-right House Freedom Caucus, Ogles secured the president's endorsement last November, and Mr. Trump again urged people to vote for the "Conservative Warrior" in an Election Day social media post . But Hatcher was endorsed by Tennessee Gov. Bill Lee and former Gov. Bill Haslam. Ogles has drawn controversy for incendiary rhetoric on social media, including posts stating that "homosexuality has no place in America " and that "Muslims don't belong in American society ." He deleted the post about homosexuality, saying the "stupid" and "hurtful" post was written by a member of his staff who was later "reprimanded." Ogles' phone was seized by the FBI in 2024 as part of a campaign finance-related investigation. The lawmaker pushed back on the move, and the Justice Department agreed to return his phone earlier this year. He was not charged with a crime. Earlier this year, Ogles' district was redrawn as part of a broader redistricting effort that broke up Tennessee's sole Democratic-leaning seat. The district previously covered parts of Middle Tennessee near Nashville, but it now snakes more than 200 miles from the Nashville suburbs to Memphis. Both Ogles and Hatcher have sought to align themselves with Mr. Trump while running in the deep-red district. But Hatcher has taken some jabs at Ogles' rhetoric, calling him a "show horse" and arguing: "Think what President Trump could do if our congressman spent less time talking and more time doing." Ogles was also outspent in the race, raising $613,135 to Hatcher's $719,503, according to Federal Election Commission filings. And a pro-clean energy super PAC called the Invest In Tomorrow Coalition spent around $2 million to support Hatcher and oppose Ogles last month. The group's donors include tech billionaire Chris Larsen and several renewable energy companies. Ogles criticized the Invest in Tomorrow Coalition in the final days of the race, accusing national left-leaning group of "interfering in a Republican primary" and trying to buy his seat because he "openly fought against green energy subsidies in Congress." In a Thursday night statement, Invest In Tomorrow Coalition Chair Tom Matzzie vowed to "continue to punish members of either party who want to play politics with American jobs, energy security, and utility prices." "Tennessee's 5th District just proved once again that standing in the way of America's energy future comes with a hefty political price," said Matzzie, who is also the CEO of electricity supplier CleanChoice Energy. Hatcher will face Democratic nominee Chaz Molder in the November general election. More from CBS News Rick Brattin wins Republican primary for Missouri seat redrawn to favor GOP Democratic Rep. Gluesenkamp Perez and Trump-backed Republican advance in Washington primary Ollivant projected to win GOP primary in battleground Virginia district Behind closed doors, Trump, White House aides hope Rep. Max Miller exits race Go deeper with The Free Press Trump Took Out Massie. A GOP Civil War Still Awaits. The GOP Has an Anti-Muslim Problem In: Donald Trump Tennessee U.S. House of Representatives © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. CBS News Live CBS News 24/7 Live CBS News 24/7 Rick Brattin wins Republican primary for Missouri seat redrawn to favor GOP Democratic Rep. Gluesenkamp Perez and Trump-backed Republican advance in Washington primary Ollivant projected to win GOP primary in battleground Virginia district Trump Took Out Massie. A GOP Civil War Still Awaits. Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue