US police officer accused of killing three people in Mexico arrested at border | Texas | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Members of the Mexican army at the border in Piedras Negras, Coahuila state. Photograph: Bloomberg/Getty Images View image in fullscreen Members of the Mexican army at the border in Piedras Negras, Coahuila state. Photograph: Bloomberg/Getty Images Texas US police officer accused of killing three people in Mexico arrested at border Chad Eberle of Texas charged over deadly shooting in Saltillo that officials say stemmed from custody dispute Marina Dunbar Fri 7 Aug 2026 16.49 EDT Last modified on Fri 7 Aug 2026 16.51 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google A Texas police officer has been arrested in Mexico after authorities there accused him of killing three people and critically injuring the mother of his child in what investigators say stemmed from a dispute over the custody of the minor. The Coahuila attorney general’s office said 35-year-old Chad Eberle was arrested on Wednesday at the border on a warrant accusing him of femicide and qualified homicide, according to La Razon de Mexico, a newspaper based in Mexico City. Under Mexican law, femicide refers to the intentional killing of a woman or girl because of her gender. According to La Razon, the deadly shooting happened in July in Saltillo, Mexico , after an argument over Eberle allegedly not having permission to take his three-year-old son. Two women and one man were killed in the attack. The victims were identified by La Razon with the first names and ages of Ana Laura, 44; Laura Jaquelín, 22; and Emanuel, 44. The child’s 26-year-old mother was also shot in the head and remained in critical condition, officials said. Investigators said Eberle was arrested while attempting to cross from Mexico into Texas through the international bridge at Piedras Negras, across from Eagle Pass, KTXS reported. Eberle had left the residence with his son in a gray Chevrolet Silverado, prompting investigators to launch a manhunt as they tracked the vehicle toward the Texas border, the US Sun reported. He was then intercepted before he could re-enter the US with the child. The three-year-old was unharmed and was later placed in the care of Coahuila’s child welfare agency. The San Antonio Express identified Eberle as a police officer in the central Texas town of Santa Anna. Before that, he worked as a deputy constable with Bexar county – which includes San Antonio – and also served as a police officer for the Northside independent school district. The Express reported that Eberle also held law enforcement positions in the Texas communities of Somerset, Marble Falls, Gregory, near Corpus Christi, Lockney in the state’s panhandle, and Bangs in the west. According to the newspaper, a 2022 Facebook post from the Lockney police department described Eberle as an army veteran. In a social media post on Thursday, Coahuila attorney general Federico Fernández said: “It is reported that at [9.59p] Chad ‘N’ has been admitted to the Saltillo men’s penitentiary in compliance with [an] arrest warrant, where he has been placed at the disposal of the competent judicial authority, in accordance with the corresponding procedure.” He added: “Likewise, the minor is already in the city of Saltillo, under the custody and care of the prosecutor’s office for boys, girls and the family (Pronnif), in order to guarantee the comprehensive protection of his rights.” Texas news outlet Coleman Today obtained a statement from Santa Anna city officials which described Eberle as “one of our reserve officers … [who] was on a personal leave of absence until December. “The Santa Anna police department has been in contact with the US consulate in Mexico and [the Texas commission on law enforcement].” That statement also said Eberle was “an unpaid reserve police officer hired in November 2025 and worked one weekend per month. “Due to the ongoing investigation, no other public comment will be made.” Explore more on these topics Texas US crime Mexico US policing Americas news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)