Pirro brought box of evidence to show Trump what caused Reflecting Pool damage - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Spokane Wildfires World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War Spokane Wildfires World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Politics Pirro brought box of evidence to show Trump what caused Reflecting Pool damage By Sarah N. Lynch , Sarah N. Lynch Senior Justice Department Reporter Sarah N. Lynch is the senior Justice Department reporter for CBS News, based in Washington, D.C. Read Full Bio Sarah N. Lynch , Jennifer Jacobs Jennifer Jacobs Senior White House reporter Jennifer Jacobs is a senior White House reporter at CBS News. Read Full Bio Jennifer Jacobs August 4, 2026 / 11:56 AM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google The top federal prosecutor in the nation's capital carted a box full of evidence to the White House on Monday, in a bid to prove to President Trump that the damage to the Reflecting Pool was caused by shoddy construction and not by vandals, sources familiar with the matter told CBS News on Tuesday. U.S. Attorney for D.C. Jeanine Pirro, a staunch ally of the president, made the case in a sometimes heated private meeting in the Oval Office Monday, hours after Mr. Trump had publicly rebuked her for dropping criminal charges against Olympic canoeist David Hearn . She was later photographed leaving the White House carting a large white box and other bags, which sources said contained all of the evidence collected from the Interior Department that exculpated Hearn and several others from criminal vandalism. A spokesperson for Pirro's office declined comment. U.S. Attorney for D.C. Jeanine Pirro departs the White House, Aug. 3, 2026. CBS News Mr. Trump earlier in the day had accused Pirro of folding "like an umbrella," after her office on Friday filed a motion dismissing the felony case against Hearn. In the motion , prosecutors blamed the Interior Department for holding back critical evidence that they claimed they did not see until after they had secured the indictment from the grand jury in D.C.'s Superior Court. They said new information they had received indicated that the damage was caused by a "botched installation" by a contractor, not vandalism, as the president and Interior Secretary Doug Burgum claimed. On Saturday, Burgum said in a post on X , "The evidence is clear, vandals have repeatedly caused damage to the Reflecting Pool." The U.S. attorney's office has also since moved to dismiss criminal charges against three others accused of vandalizing the Reflecting Pool. Pirro's office has suffered a number of high-profile setbacks involving cases related to Mr. Trump's enemies and topics of personal interest to him. Earlier this year, a grand jury uniformly refused to indict six Democratic lawmakers for posting a video urging military members not to follow orders they believe are illegal. Historically, a grand jury refusing to return an indictment is highly unusual, let alone having a grand jury unanimously refuse to do so. Then, the chief judge for the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia quashed grand jury subpoenas issued by Pirro's office to investigate former Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell and the Fed itself in connection with a costly renovation and statements he made to Congress about that work. In doing so, the judge said the subpoenas were merely a pretext to pressure Powell to lower interest rates. Pirro later dropped the investigation, but not before several of her deputies first made an unannounced visit to the Fed's construction site and tried to gain access to the property before being turned away. Kristin Brown contributed to this report. More from CBS News Trump says Jeanine Pirro "choked" in dropping Reflecting Pool cases Behind closed doors, Trump, White House aides hope Rep. Max Miller exits race Trump raises concerns in call with Rep. Max Miller amid abuse allegations House Ethics probing Rep. Max Miller for alleged domestic violence, drug use Go deeper with The Free Press Mr. President, Give Up on a Nuclear Deal With Iran What Happens After Trump?: Why Tim Miller Thinks Politics Can’t Go Back In: Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool Donald Trump Vandalism Jeanine Pirro United States Department of the Interior © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Trump slams Pirro over Reflecting Pool Trump rebukes Jeanine Pirro for dropping Reflecting Pool charges 04:04 Trump rebukes Jeanine Pirro for dropping Reflecting Pool charges (04:04) Trump says Jeanine Pirro "choked" in dropping Reflecting Pool cases Behind closed doors, Trump, White House aides hope Rep. Max Miller exits race Trump raises concerns in call with Rep. Max Miller amid abuse allegations Mr. President, Give Up on a Nuclear Deal With Iran Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest MLB Trade Deadline Predictions NFL Overrated QBs Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue