Stocks slip as rate worries overshadow big bank profits | AP News Menu World SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Mass burials in Nepal as death toll from flash floods exceeds 1,000 US and Iran trade strikes, and other Mideast news Edouard weakens into a tropical depression after landfall but still dumping rain into Texas Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES Lindsay Clancy jury goes home after a fourth day without a verdict and signals an impasse Pennsylvania police officer charged with voluntary manslaughter in killing of college student Wendell Berry, Kentucky-born author who advocated a simpler life, has died at 92 Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES US military completes latest strikes against Iran, while Trump vows more for Tehran's retaliation Postal Service work to comply with Trump's executive order is rushed and sloppy, a whistleblower contends LIVE US and Iran exchange fire after abrupt end to month without military action Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis TOP STORIES Tony Romo pleads no contest to charge of operating while intoxicated and issues statement of apology Naomi Osaka's US Open look channels Allen Iverson with gray hoodie and hair in cornrows MLB's Los Angeles Angels to be sold to Rams and Arsenal owner Stan Kroenke Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES Jury convicts a man of first-degree murder for the 1996 killing of rap icon Tupac Shakur Amid backlash, museum cancels planned Met Gala exhibit on fashion designer John Galliano Fall Movie Guide: Here are the films coming out this fall, from September through November Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Apple's new CEO, John Ternus, takes over from Tim Cook after 15 years Stocks slip on Wall Street under pressure from higher oil prices and rising bond yields Why bond yields are rising and why everyone should care Science Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Massive blackouts are unlikely if Canada stops exporting electricity to the US Misinformation about the Israel-Hamas war is flooding social media. Here are the facts False claim of human meat in McDonald’s factories stems from old hoax No, Amish kids aren’t immune to cancer, diabetes and autism — and they aren’t vaccine-free, either FACT FOCUS: Census Bureau report does not prove Trump's claim about noncitizen voting in 2020 Video of Kamala Harris saying ‘today is today’ was altered Oddities TOP STORIES Capybaras keep their chill while crashing Brazilian legislature Zookeepers in Prague turn into puppeteers to save baby vultures Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Raccoon goes on drunken rampage in Virginia liquor store and passes out on bathroom floor Be Well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin Photography SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 One photo shows the human and environmental dimensions of artisanal mining in Congo 'Why? Why? Why?' Ukraine's Mariupol descends into despair Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Flash flooding causes major damage to the Grand Canyon's critical water pipeline Satellite images show bedrock and glacier collapsed on Nepal-China border, then rivers flooded The disease that decimated American elms could help bring them back Health TOP STORIES Texas hospitals expect to lose $27 million a day in Medicaid funding starting Tuesday Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it What to know about postpartum psychosis, which can affect a new mom's sense of reality Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin As the Clancy case highlights postpartum psychosis, a mom stricken by it shares her story of hope Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Lake Ontario now called Lake America on Google Maps for US users after Trump ordered name change El nuevo CEO de Apple, John Ternus, toma el relevo de Tim Cook tras 15 años Judge says Pentagon's measures against Anthropic were 'illegal and baseless' Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES A guide to choosing mums for the fall garden — beyond the classic cushion How international supermarkets can break up a dinner rut without costing a fortune Why ordering takeout or calling the dog walker might lead to a happier relationship Religion TOP STORIES What to know about the Mount Kailash pilgrimage site after floods in Nepal and Tibet The living care for ancestors and wandering spirits at Malaysia's Hungry Ghost Festival An AP reporter spends the night locked inside Jerusalem's holiest church with clergy and pilgrims Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES Máximo general dice que Ejército de EEUU no planea enviar tropas a las urnas en noviembre Depresión tropical Edouard azota Texas con fuertes lluvias; deja a miles sin electricidad Mujer mata a una persona y deja herida a otra en un apuñalamiento al azar en Times Square Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct MORE World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Mass burials in Nepal as death toll from flash floods exceeds 1,000 US and Iran trade strikes, and other Mideast news Edouard weakens into a tropical depression after landfall but still dumping rain into Texas Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES Lindsay Clancy jury goes home after a fourth day without a verdict and signals an impasse Pennsylvania police officer charged with voluntary manslaughter in killing of college student Wendell Berry, Kentucky-born author who advocated a simpler life, has died at 92 Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES US military completes latest strikes against Iran, while Trump vows more for Tehran's retaliation Postal Service work to comply with Trump's executive order is rushed and sloppy, a whistleblower contends LIVE US and Iran exchange fire after abrupt end to month without military action Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing SECTIONS NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis TOP STORIES Tony Romo pleads no contest to charge of operating while intoxicated and issues statement of apology Naomi Osaka's US Open look channels Allen Iverson with gray hoodie and hair in cornrows MLB's Los Angeles Angels to be sold to Rams and Arsenal owner Stan Kroenke Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES Jury convicts a man of first-degree murder for the 1996 killing of rap icon Tupac Shakur Amid backlash, museum cancels planned Met Gala exhibit on fashion designer John Galliano Fall Movie Guide: Here are the films coming out this fall, from September through November Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Apple's new CEO, John Ternus, takes over from Tim Cook after 15 years Stocks slip on Wall Street under pressure from higher oil prices and rising bond yields Why bond yields are rising and why everyone should care Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Massive blackouts are unlikely if Canada stops exporting electricity to the US Misinformation about the Israel-Hamas war is flooding social media. Here are the facts False claim of human meat in McDonald’s factories stems from old hoax No, Amish kids aren’t immune to cancer, diabetes and autism — and they aren’t vaccine-free, either FACT FOCUS: Census Bureau report does not prove Trump's claim about noncitizen voting in 2020 Video of Kamala Harris saying ‘today is today’ was altered Oddities TOP STORIES Capybaras keep their chill while crashing Brazilian legislature Zookeepers in Prague turn into puppeteers to save baby vultures Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Raccoon goes on drunken rampage in Virginia liquor store and passes out on bathroom floor Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin Photography Photo Essays SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 One photo shows the human and environmental dimensions of artisanal mining in Congo 'Why? Why? Why?' Ukraine's Mariupol descends into despair Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Flash flooding causes major damage to the Grand Canyon's critical water pipeline Satellite images show bedrock and glacier collapsed on Nepal-China border, then rivers flooded The disease that decimated American elms could help bring them back Health TOP STORIES Texas hospitals expect to lose $27 million a day in Medicaid funding starting Tuesday Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it What to know about postpartum psychosis, which can affect a new mom's sense of reality Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin As the Clancy case highlights postpartum psychosis, a mom stricken by it shares her story of hope Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Lake Ontario now called Lake America on Google Maps for US users after Trump ordered name change El nuevo CEO de Apple, John Ternus, toma el relevo de Tim Cook tras 15 años Judge says Pentagon's measures against Anthropic were 'illegal and baseless' Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES A guide to choosing mums for the fall garden — beyond the classic cushion How international supermarkets can break up a dinner rut without costing a fortune Why ordering takeout or calling the dog walker might lead to a happier relationship Religion TOP STORIES What to know about the Mount Kailash pilgrimage site after floods in Nepal and Tibet The living care for ancestors and wandering spirits at Malaysia's Hungry Ghost Festival An AP reporter spends the night locked inside Jerusalem's holiest church with clergy and pilgrims Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español Política de EEUU Deportes SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES Máximo general dice que Ejército de EEUU no planea enviar tropas a las urnas en noviembre Depresión tropical Edouard azota Texas con fuertes lluvias; deja a miles sin electricidad Mujer mata a una persona y deja herida a otra en un apuñalamiento al azar en Times Square Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct SECTIONS ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Menu World SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Mass burials in Nepal as death toll from flash floods exceeds 1,000 US and Iran trade strikes, and other Mideast news Edouard weakens into a tropical depression after landfall but still dumping rain into Texas Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES Lindsay Clancy jury goes home after a fourth day without a verdict and signals an impasse Pennsylvania police officer charged with voluntary manslaughter in killing of college student Wendell Berry, Kentucky-born author who advocated a simpler life, has died at 92 Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES US military completes latest strikes against Iran, while Trump vows more for Tehran's retaliation Postal Service work to comply with Trump's executive order is rushed and sloppy, a whistleblower contends LIVE US and Iran exchange fire after abrupt end to month without military action Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis TOP STORIES Tony Romo pleads no contest to charge of operating while intoxicated and issues statement of apology Naomi Osaka's US Open look channels Allen Iverson with gray hoodie and hair in cornrows MLB's Los Angeles Angels to be sold to Rams and Arsenal owner Stan Kroenke Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES Jury convicts a man of first-degree murder for the 1996 killing of rap icon Tupac Shakur Amid backlash, museum cancels planned Met Gala exhibit on fashion designer John Galliano Fall Movie Guide: Here are the films coming out this fall, from September through November Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Apple's new CEO, John Ternus, takes over from Tim Cook after 15 years Stocks slip on Wall Street under pressure from higher oil prices and rising bond yields Why bond yields are rising and why everyone should care Science Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Massive blackouts are unlikely if Canada stops exporting electricity to the US Misinformation about the Israel-Hamas war is flooding social media. Here are the facts False claim of human meat in McDonald’s factories stems from old hoax No, Amish kids aren’t immune to cancer, diabetes and autism — and they aren’t vaccine-free, either FACT FOCUS: Census Bureau report does not prove Trump's claim about noncitizen voting in 2020 Video of Kamala Harris saying ‘today is today’ was altered Oddities TOP STORIES Capybaras keep their chill while crashing Brazilian legislature Zookeepers in Prague turn into puppeteers to save baby vultures Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Raccoon goes on drunken rampage in Virginia liquor store and passes out on bathroom floor Be Well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin Photography SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 One photo shows the human and environmental dimensions of artisanal mining in Congo 'Why? Why? Why?' Ukraine's Mariupol descends into despair Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Flash flooding causes major damage to the Grand Canyon's critical water pipeline Satellite images show bedrock and glacier collapsed on Nepal-China border, then rivers flooded The disease that decimated American elms could help bring them back Health TOP STORIES Texas hospitals expect to lose $27 million a day in Medicaid funding starting Tuesday Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it What to know about postpartum psychosis, which can affect a new mom's sense of reality Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin As the Clancy case highlights postpartum psychosis, a mom stricken by it shares her story of hope Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Lake Ontario now called Lake America on Google Maps for US users after Trump ordered name change El nuevo CEO de Apple, John Ternus, toma el relevo de Tim Cook tras 15 años Judge says Pentagon's measures against Anthropic were 'illegal and baseless' Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES A guide to choosing mums for the fall garden — beyond the classic cushion How international supermarkets can break up a dinner rut without costing a fortune Why ordering takeout or calling the dog walker might lead to a happier relationship Religion TOP STORIES What to know about the Mount Kailash pilgrimage site after floods in Nepal and Tibet The living care for ancestors and wandering spirits at Malaysia's Hungry Ghost Festival An AP reporter spends the night locked inside Jerusalem's holiest church with clergy and pilgrims Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES Máximo general dice que Ejército de EEUU no planea enviar tropas a las urnas en noviembre Depresión tropical Edouard azota Texas con fuertes lluvias; deja a miles sin electricidad Mujer mata a una persona y deja herida a otra en un apuñalamiento al azar en Times Square Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct MORE World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Mass burials in Nepal as death toll from flash floods exceeds 1,000 US and Iran trade strikes, and other Mideast news Edouard weakens into a tropical depression after landfall but still dumping rain into Texas Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES Lindsay Clancy jury goes home after a fourth day without a verdict and signals an impasse Pennsylvania police officer charged with voluntary manslaughter in killing of college student Wendell Berry, Kentucky-born author who advocated a simpler life, has died at 92 Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES US military completes latest strikes against Iran, while Trump vows more for Tehran's retaliation Postal Service work to comply with Trump's executive order is rushed and sloppy, a whistleblower contends LIVE US and Iran exchange fire after abrupt end to month without military action Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing SECTIONS NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis TOP STORIES Tony Romo pleads no contest to charge of operating while intoxicated and issues statement of apology Naomi Osaka's US Open look channels Allen Iverson with gray hoodie and hair in cornrows MLB's Los Angeles Angels to be sold to Rams and Arsenal owner Stan Kroenke Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES Jury convicts a man of first-degree murder for the 1996 killing of rap icon Tupac Shakur Amid backlash, museum cancels planned Met Gala exhibit on fashion designer John Galliano Fall Movie Guide: Here are the films coming out this fall, from September through November Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Apple's new CEO, John Ternus, takes over from Tim Cook after 15 years Stocks slip on Wall Street under pressure from higher oil prices and rising bond yields Why bond yields are rising and why everyone should care Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Massive blackouts are unlikely if Canada stops exporting electricity to the US Misinformation about the Israel-Hamas war is flooding social media. Here are the facts False claim of human meat in McDonald’s factories stems from old hoax No, Amish kids aren’t immune to cancer, diabetes and autism — and they aren’t vaccine-free, either FACT FOCUS: Census Bureau report does not prove Trump's claim about noncitizen voting in 2020 Video of Kamala Harris saying ‘today is today’ was altered Oddities TOP STORIES Capybaras keep their chill while crashing Brazilian legislature Zookeepers in Prague turn into puppeteers to save baby vultures Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Raccoon goes on drunken rampage in Virginia liquor store and passes out on bathroom floor Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin Photography Photo Essays SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 One photo shows the human and environmental dimensions of artisanal mining in Congo 'Why? Why? Why?' Ukraine's Mariupol descends into despair Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Flash flooding causes major damage to the Grand Canyon's critical water pipeline Satellite images show bedrock and glacier collapsed on Nepal-China border, then rivers flooded The disease that decimated American elms could help bring them back Health TOP STORIES Texas hospitals expect to lose $27 million a day in Medicaid funding starting Tuesday Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it What to know about postpartum psychosis, which can affect a new mom's sense of reality Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin As the Clancy case highlights postpartum psychosis, a mom stricken by it shares her story of hope Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Lake Ontario now called Lake America on Google Maps for US users after Trump ordered name change El nuevo CEO de Apple, John Ternus, toma el relevo de Tim Cook tras 15 años Judge says Pentagon's measures against Anthropic were 'illegal and baseless' Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES A guide to choosing mums for the fall garden — beyond the classic cushion How international supermarkets can break up a dinner rut without costing a fortune Why ordering takeout or calling the dog walker might lead to a happier relationship Religion TOP STORIES What to know about the Mount Kailash pilgrimage site after floods in Nepal and Tibet The living care for ancestors and wandering spirits at Malaysia's Hungry Ghost Festival An AP reporter spends the night locked inside Jerusalem's holiest church with clergy and pilgrims Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español Política de EEUU Deportes SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES Máximo general dice que Ejército de EEUU no planea enviar tropas a las urnas en noviembre Depresión tropical Edouard azota Texas con fuertes lluvias; deja a miles sin electricidad Mujer mata a una persona y deja herida a otra en un apuñalamiento al azar en Times Square Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct SECTIONS ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Stocks slip as rate worries overshadow big bank profits Stocks slip as rate worries overshadow big bank profits 1 of 6 | FILE - Traders work on the floor at the New York Stock Exchange in New York, Friday, July 1, 2022. (AP Photo/Seth Wenig, File) Read More 2 of 6 | A person walks past in front of an electronic stock board showing Japan’s Nikkei 225 index at a securities firm Friday, April 14, 2023, in Tokyo. Asian stock markets followed Wall Street higher on Friday after U.S. inflation eased in March and China reported unexpectedly strong exports. (AP Photo/Eugene Hoshiko) Read More 3 of 6 | A person stands in front of an electronic stock board showing Japan’s stock prices at a securities firm Friday, April 14, 2023, in Tokyo. Asian stock markets followed Wall Street higher on Friday after U.S. inflation eased in March and China reported unexpectedly strong exports.(AP Photo/Eugene Hoshiko) Read More 4 of 6 | A person walks near an electronic stock board showing Japan’s Nikkei 225 index Friday, April 14, 2023, in Tokyo. Asian stock markets followed Wall Street higher on Friday after U.S. inflation eased in March and China reported unexpectedly strong exports. (AP Photo/Eugene Hoshiko) Read More 5 of 6 | People walk near an electronic stock board showing Japan’s Nikkei 225 index at a securities firm Friday, April 14, 2023, in Tokyo. Asian stock markets followed Wall Street higher on Friday after U.S. inflation eased in March and China reported unexpectedly strong exports. (AP Photo/Eugene Hoshiko) Read More 6 of 6 | People walk in front of an electronic stock board showing Japan’s Nikkei 225 index at a securities firm Friday, April 14, 2023, in Tokyo. Asian stock markets followed Wall Street higher on Friday after U.S. inflation eased in March and China reported unexpectedly strong exports. (AP Photo/Eugene Hoshiko) Read More By Stan Choe Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit NEW YORK (AP) — Stocks on Wall Street dipped Friday as worries about interest rates overshadowed an encouraging start to earnings reporting season for big U.S. companies. The S&P 500 fell 8.58 points, or 0.2%, to 4,137.64 after giving up an early gain. The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 143.22, or 0.4%, to 33,886.47, while the Nasdaq composite sank 42.81, or 0.4%, to 12,123.47. The S&P 500 still squeezed out a fourth winning week in the last five, built in part on hopes the Federal Reserve may soon end its barrage of rate hikes as inflation cools. High interest rates can stifle inflation but only by slowing the economy, raising the risk of a recession and dragging on prices for investments. A top Fed official dampened those hopes Friday after saying inflation remains far too high and more tightening may be needed. Christopher Waller, a member of the Fed’s governing board, also said that even after hikes to rates end, they will likely need to stay high for longer than markets expect. After his comments, traders built bets that the Fed will raise rates at its next meeting in May, instead of taking its first pause in more than a year. Some also began betting the Fed may hike rates again in June, according to data from CME Group. High-growth stocks tend to be among the most hurt by high rates, and Big Tech stocks were among the heaviest weights on the S&P 500. Microsoft fell 1.3%. Related Stories America In Focus: key inflation gauge remains high; Fed’s Warsh signals rate hikes may be needed 4 MIN READ Warsh raises stakes for Fed’s next meeting and other takeaways from Jackson Hole conference 5 MIN READ Fed Chair Warsh signals rate hikes may be needed with US inflation stubbornly elevated 5 MIN READ 242 Swaths of the economy have already begun slowing under the weight of higher interest rates, raising worries that a recession may be likely. A report on Friday showed U.S. shoppers cut their spending at retailers by more last month than expected. Much of that was due to falling gasoline prices, and the drop for what economists call “core retail sales” wasn’t as bad as forecast. Read More “The Fed’s challenge has been to cool inflation without putting the economy into a deep freeze in the process,” said Mike Loewengart, head of model portfolio construction at Morgan Stanley Global Investment Office. “The dynamic is still playing out in the markets, and we could see more choppy price action as a result.” Potentially making things more difficult for the Fed was another report Friday that said U.S. households are girding for higher inflation. Consumers are expecting inflation over the next year of 4.6%, up from expectations for 3.6% a month earlier, according to a preliminary survey by the University of Michigan. That could be troublesome, as the Fed has long feared entrenched expectations of high inflation could lead to a vicious cycle that keeps it high. Longer-term expectations for inflation, though, remain stable and clocked in at 2.9% for a fifth straight month, according to the survey. All the worries helped push Treasury yields higher. The 10-year Treasury yield rose to 3.51% from 3.45% late Thursday. It helps set rates for mortgages and other important loans. The two-year Treasury yield moves more on expectations for the Fed, and its gain was sharper, up to 4.10% from 3.97%. Helping to offset some of the worries about rates were big gains by several of the nation’s biggest banks. They reported profits for the first three months of the year that blew past expectations. They helped kick off the reporting season for big U.S. companies, where expectations are mostly dismal. Despite such worries, JPMorgan Chase jumped 7.6% after its profit surged by more than half from a year earlier. It benefited from the strains unearthed in the banking system last month that shook global markets. Those worries pushed some customers to pull cash from smaller banks and move it to bigger ones. Citigroup rose 4.8% after it also reported stronger profit than expected. BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager, rose 3.1% after its earnings likewise topped forecasts. Boeing was one of the heaviest weights on the S&P 500. Its stock slid 5.6% after the aircraft maker said Thursday that production and delivery of a “significant number” of its 737 Max planes could be delayed because of questions about a supplier’s work on the fuselages. Boeing said the supplier, Spirit AeroSystems, used a “non-standard manufacturing process” during installation of fittings near the rear of some 737s. Boeing said the situation is not an immediate safety issue and planes already flying “can continue operating safely.” —— AP Business Writers Joe McDonald and Matt Ott contributed. Most read US military completes latest strikes against Iran, while Trump vows more for Tehran’s retaliation 6 MIN READ 583 Postal Service work to comply with Trump’s executive order is rushed and sloppy, a whistleblower contends 6 MIN READ 1056 Mass burials in Nepal as death toll from flash floods exceeds 1,000 4 MIN READ 18 US and Iran exchange fire after abrupt end to month without military action US and Iran trade strikes, and other Mideast news 4 MIN READ 175 The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct SECTIONS ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. twitter instagram facebook