Michigan lifts lettuce warning as state’s cyclosporiasis cases fall IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Politics U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Health news Michigan lifts lettuce warning as state’s cyclosporiasis cases fall The state health department said that residents can return to their usual salad routines, including buying bagged salads, but should still avoid recalled lettuce. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 6, 2026, 4:31 PM EDT By Sara G. Miller Michigan health officials said Thursday that residents could return to their usual salad routine as cyclosporiasis cases in the state continue to fall. Michigan has logged the most cases of the parasitic infection, which causes explosive diarrhea, as the illness has surged across the U.S. Michigan has reported 12,485 cases of cyclosporiasis since June, including 279 hospitalizations and two deaths. Case reports, however, are slowing, officials said, “including a downward trend in diarrhea-related emergency department visits.” On Thursday, Michigan’s health department said that the majority of people sickened were exposed in late June to early July, and that “the majority of contaminated produce is likely no longer available for consumption.” Michigan residents no longer need to avoid bagged salads, the health department said Thursday, and could also return to their usual produce-handling practices. Residents should still avoid recalled lettuce , it added. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Wednesday that 15 states have been connected to the cyclosporiasis outbreak, which has been linked to shredded iceberg lettuce served at Taco Bell restaurants and supplied by Taylor Farms de Mexico. The Food and Drug Administration announced that on July 17 Taylor Farms voluntarily recalled all of its iceberg lettuce grown in central Mexico. That lettuce had been distributed to restaurants and retailers in 27 states. Retailers included selected Walmart locations, which sold the lettuce under the Marketside brand. In addition to avoiding the recalled lettuce, Michigan health officials recommended that people purchase whole heads of lettuce or salad greens instead of bagged salads, discard the outer layers and thoroughly wash the remaining inner leaves before eating. On Wednesday, the CDC said that four people in Michigan had been sickened in an unrelated outbreak of salmonella linked to jalapeños. Share Add NBC News to Google Sara G. Miller Sara G. Miller is the health editor for NBC News, Health & Medical Unit. About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC