Up First briefing: U.S. missiles; Michigan primaries; Flu shots : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Up First briefing: U.S. missiles; Michigan primaries; Flu shots The U.S. Army's missile stockpile is dwindling and could take years to replenish. And, the Food and Drug Administration is deciding whether to approve a flu vaccine with mRNA technology. Special Series Up First Newsletter All Up First Stories Up First Podcast Morning Edition LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music RSS link U.S. missile stockpiles dwindle. And, FDA weighs approval of flu shots with mRNA tech August 5, 2026 7:54 AM ET By Brittney Melton Primary Election Results, US Missile Stockpiles Running Low, New Flu Vaccine Listen · 12:36 12-Minute Listen Playlist Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/g-s1-137429/nx-s1-mx-5921135-1" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Transcript Good morning. You're reading the Up First newsletter. Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox, and listen to the Up First podcast for all the news you need to start your day. Today's top stories The U.S. Army has used most of its long-range attack missiles in the war with Iran , NPR has confirmed. A U.S. official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly, said that precision missiles like PrSMs and ATCAMs are nearly depleted. These offensive weapons can strike from hundreds of miles away, providing crucial protection for U.S. servicemembers by reducing the need for American pilots to approach enemy targets closely. U.S. Navy/Getty Images 🎧 Despite these shortages , senior military officials say the U.S. currently has enough offensive weapons to meet its immediate needs, NPR's Kat Lonsdorf tells Up First . But these precision missiles take years to replenish, which means depleted stockpiles could leave the U.S. vulnerable in future conflicts . The U.S. stockpile of Patriot interceptors, which are the U.S.' main tool to shoot down drones and missiles in the Middle East, has shrunk by two-thirds since the start of this war, according to a Center for Strategic and International Studies report. Patriots also take a significant amount of time to replenish, and they cost around $4 million each. ➡️ The shrinking stockpile of Patriot missiles also leaves U.S. allies vulnerable . Ukraine currently faces an urgent need for a fresh supply to defend itself against Russia. Sponsor Message Michigan's closely watched Democratic Senate primary is too close to call. Progressive Abdul El-Sayed currently has a narrow lead over moderate Congresswoman Haley Stevens. The winner will compete for a vital Senate seat against Republican Rep. Mike Rogers in a swing state crucial to Democrats' efforts to regain control of the chamber. Here's what you need to know about all of yesterday's primary races in Kansas, Michigan, Missouri, Virginia and Washington. 🎧 The mood among Democratic voters has shifted since the 2018 midterm during President Trump's first term, according to NPR's Tamara Keith. At that time, moderate Democrats were seen as the solution. This time, Democratic primary voters blame their own party for the president's win, Keith says. She adds that the party has significant repair work to do, regardless of who wins in Michigan. The bitter primary has left some voters saying they're unwilling to support the opposing candidate in November. The Food and Drug Administration is deciding whether to approve the first flu vaccine that uses mRNA technology. Moderna's mFlusiva vaccine would operate similarly to its COVID-19 vaccine by stimulating the immune system to produce antibodies that can fight off viruses. Its approval has been met with skepticism due to scrutiny over mRNA technology stemming from anger over COVID-19 vaccine mandates during the pandemic and misinformation about the shot's safety. Sponsor Message 🎧 A trial of over 40,000 participants showed that Moderna's mFlusiva is safe and offers stronger protection than traditional flu shots for adults 50 and older, NPR's Rob Stein says. The vaccine earned a unanimous recommendation for approval from independent FDA advisers in June. Beyond providing stronger protection , the mRNA vaccine can be reformulated and produced more quickly than traditional options, allowing experts to adapt more quickly to new flu strains or pandemics. Central Appalachian veteran underground coal miners are experiencing an incurable and fatal lung disease at the highest rates recorded in nearly 50 years, according to the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. Miners who have worked underground for at least 25 years in Kentucky, Virginia and West Virginia suffer the worst rates of coal workers' pneumoconiosis, also known as black lung disease. The disease's prevalence hit a low point in 1999, after Congress imposed strict limits on exposure to the coal mine dust that causes black lung. But the decline in cases has been reversed, and experts blame toxic silica dust that is now more common in mines. Deep dive A grocery cart is full of food items as a person shops at the Feeding South Florida food pantry on July 8 in Pembroke Park, Fla. Joe Raedle/Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Joe Raedle/Getty Images The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) will undergo a restructuring of its funding model in October. But even before the changes take effect, more than 4 million Americans — many of whom are children — have lost access to its critical food aid. SNAP started to see a rapid decline in participation during the same month that the Trump administration's One Big Beautiful Bill Act, which included major changes to the program, became law. Program eligibility has been tightened, and once the funding model shift happens, states will face increased costs that could lead them to scale back or withdraw from the program. According to Starsky Wilson from the Children's Defense Fund, such cuts could leave food banks and government programs unable to fill the gap. Here's how the program works, where things stand and what's changed . Sponsor Message 🛒 To access food benefits, adults must work or volunteer 80 hours each month. This now applies to veterans, homeless individuals, young adults aging out of foster care, parents of 14- to 17-year-olds and those aged 55 to 64. 🛒 As of April, 37 million Americans used food stamps each month, marking an 11% decline since last July. 🛒 Starting in October, states will be responsible for covering 75% of operational expenses, while the federal government will contribute only 25%. Behind the story by Cory Turner , NPR Ed correspondent Students create AI policy at the Edward M Kennedy Institute in Boston. High-schooler Leena Jain of Louisiana addresses her fellow senators moments before the final vote of the weekend. Kieran Kesner for NPR hide caption toggle caption Kieran Kesner for NPR So much of the public discussion around the use of artificial intelligence in K-12 schools seems to focus on one thing: cheating . How and how often are teens using chatbots to do their thinking for them, write their papers or help them race through their homework? These fears may be well-founded — a generation mistaking what researchers call cognitive offloading for real learning would be calamitous — but, as a reporter, I've been eager for a chance to center teen voices in this discussion. I wanted to hear them voice their fears, but also their solutions. That's why I gave an enthusiastic "yes" when a handful of groups approached me to ask if I would be interested in covering a convening of 100 students, two from every state, in a kind of mock Senate debate. These student senators had a goal of doing what the nation's actual lawmakers have so far failed to do: draft a national policy for the use of AI in K-12 schools . The students met over a frantic, late-July weekend in Boston in an exact, scale replica of the U.S. Senate chamber. I got full access to the teens as they wrote, debated, made new friends and gave impassioned floor speeches about the risks and rewards of AI. One particular moment that stood out to me had nothing to do with cheating. The teens were debating what to do if a student in crisis tries to use a school chatbot for emotional support. Sponsor Message A high-schooler from Iowa, Dylan Dornack, argued that it was important the AI not be allowed to respond and that, instead, a small group of trusted school officials be alerted. "This could be life-saving," Dornack said, "This is just one of those things that has to be taken to trusted adults." After Dornack made his case to the full Senate, the amendment passed overwhelmingly. I hope you'll read more about what I saw and what students could agree on when it comes to AI at school. 3 things to know before you go A view of the Nasdaq MarketSite after SpaceX company executives rang the opening bell to celebrate the launch of SpaceX's initial public offering (IPO) in New York on June 12, 2026. TIMOTHY A. CLARY/AFP via Getty Images hide caption toggle caption TIMOTHY A. CLARY/AFP via Getty Images In SpaceX's first quarterly report since going public, the company beat expectations, reporting nearly double the previous year's revenue and narrowing losses, but posted no profit. Maryland has opened the country's largest center for human composting. This process, which takes about a month, transforms human remains into nutrient-rich soil using bacteria, fungi, and mulch. (via WYPR ) When Annabelle Gurwitch was undergoing cancer treatment in 2020, she couldn't imagine what her future would look like. But her unsung hero gave her an unexpectedly raunchy piece of advice right before a date, encouraging her to start re-engaging with life. This newsletter was edited by Suzanne Nuyen . Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR National 12 dead after skydiving plane crashes in Missouri, authorities say Sunday Puzzle: World Capitals Politics Progressive Abdul El-Sayed wins Michigan's Democratic primary for Senate Trump's Terms Trump's third check-up at Walter Reed raises more questions about his health : Trump's Terms Elections Progressives see biggest win yet in Michigan, while Trump flexes power over GOP News Frontier Airlines plane strikes and kills pedestrian More Stories From NPR Up First Newsletter 5 states hold primaries today. And, Spokane police arrest man connected to wildfire Up First Newsletter Todd Blanche rescinds 'anti-weaponization fund'. And, Trump calls off striking Iran Up First Newsletter Trump announced a deal for Hamas to disarm. And, the U.S. economy slowed a bit Up First Newsletter Sen. Paul threatens to hold Fauci in contempt. And, a new rule undercuts U.S. asylum Up First Newsletter U.S. and Iran resume attacks. And, Fauci to face Senate questions on COVID pandemic Up First Newsletter Trump to meet with Zelenskyy, Netanyahu. And, TPS holders could soon face deportation Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Elections Progressives see biggest win yet in Michigan, while Trump flexes power over GOP Health Black lung rates in Appalachia are high as the 1970s, with thousands of miners sick Health Dr. Erica Schwartz confirmed as CDC director, filling a leadership vacuum Law Judge reluctantly dismisses case against Oath Keepers militia group over Jan. 6 riot The Ripple Effect How Deadheads became rock and roll's greatest renewable resource National Arson suspect makes first court appearance as Spokane wildfires rage on NPR Editors' Picks Asia Ousted Bangladeshi leader vows to return from exile despite facing a death sentence World Cafe How Midwest doldrums became a gift for Kevin Morby Asia Pakistan's ruling party leads in Kashmir vote despite boycott call by banned group Asia Under China's new 'unity' law, Tibetans fight to preserve language and culture Politics Progressive Abdul El-Sayed wins Michigan's Democratic primary for Senate Europe A Russian barrage in Ukraine's capital kills 17 as air defenses fall short Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices