Glenn Youngkin launches national group focused on education policy IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Politics U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Politics News Presidential prospect Glenn Youngkin launches group focused on education policy The former governor of Virginia is targeting several battleground states with an ad campaign promoting President Donald Trump’s federal school choice program. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Education was a core issue for Glenn Youngkin in his successful 2021 run for governor of Virginia. Oliver Contreras / AFP via Getty Images file Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 5, 2026, 8:30 AM EDT By Henry J. Gomez Former Virginia Gov. Glenn Youngkin , a Republican seen as a potential presidential candidate in 2028, has founded a national policy group that will launch with a push to promote a new school choice program. Empowering America’s Parents will begin a multimillion-dollar advertising blitz targeting several battleground states, including Arizona, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, a person familiar with the internal planning told NBC News. The states, led by Democratic governors, are among those that have yet to opt in to the Education Freedom Tax Credit , which was in last year’s One Big Beautiful Bill signed into law by President Donald Trump. The federal initiative is intended to expand school choices for K-12 students and their families. “Regrettably, 20 states have refused to opt-in to these scholarships,” Youngkin said in a statement announcing the launch of his policy group and an accompanying media campaign. “Empowering America’s Parents will recognize the strong leaders who embraced this program and aggressively call out far-left governors who won’t stand with parents and are instead playing politics.” Critics have long worried that such programs benefit private schools at the expense of public schools. Youngkin’s move is likely to intensify speculation that he will seek the Republican nomination for president in 2028. Asked whether the group could be a vehicle for any national political ambitions that Youngkin may harbor and want to hone, the person familiar with the planning noted that Youngkin does not appear in the launch video . “It’s a great issue for the governor,” this person added. “It’s a great accomplishment for the president.” The group’s internal polling suggests that people express support for the tax credit once they learn about it but also that awareness of the program is low, the person familiar with the plans said. The campaign will be geared toward persuadable voters, primarily in the suburbs. Empowering America’s Parents also plans to focus on transparency in public education. “Nothing is more important than our kids, so who’d be against scholarships for tuition, tutoring, services for kids with disabilities, all paid for by a federal tax credit with no state dollars?” a narrator says in the 30-second launch video. “Not hardworking parents — but far-left governors won’t play ball.” Parents’ rights — particularly in education — became a core issue for Youngkin in his successful 2021 run for governor. He attacked his Democratic opponent, former Gov. Terry McAuliffe, for vetoing bills that would have allowed parents to opt their children out of lessons involving books deemed to have sexually explicit content. (The book at the center of that debate was “Beloved,” Toni Morrison’s Pulitzer Prize-winning novel about the horrors of slavery.) A unique state law prohibits Virginia governors from serving consecutive terms. Youngkin left office this year, and questions about his White House prospects have followed him. Vice President JD Vance leads most early polls testing a potential GOP field in 2028, with Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas and Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis among other possible candidates. Share Add NBC News to Google Henry J. Gomez Henry J. Gomez is a senior national political reporter for NBC News About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC