Best Rosacea Products for Redness Relief, According to Dermatologists IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Top stories Owala’s back-to-school sale is here The best keratosis pilaris treatments for smoother skin Packing your skin care and makeup is so much easier with this toiletry bag How often should you change and wash your towels REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gearpost, REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gear Walmart has up to 65% off back-to-school must-haves 35+ college-exclusive back-to-school deals Skip to Content About Us Wellness All Wellness Skin Care Hair Care Oral Care Health Fitness Sleep Home All Home Small appliances Bedding & bath Cleaning Vacuums Office Gardening Kitchen All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech All Tech Electronics Personal Tech TVs Audio Computers Cameras Pets All Pets Dogs Cats Pet Care Lifestyle All Lifestyle Sports Travel Parenting Apparel Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping Subscribe Share About Us Wellness Main Menu All Wellness Skin Care Wellness All Skin Care Hair Care Wellness All Hair Care Oral Care Wellness All Oral Care Health Wellness All Health Fitness Wellness All Fitness Sleep Wellness All Sleep Home Main Menu All Home Small appliances Home All Small appliances Bedding & bath Home All Bedding & bath Cleaning Home All Cleaning Vacuums Home All Vacuums Office Home All Office Gardening Kitchen Main Menu All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech Main Menu All Tech Electronics Tech All Electronics Personal Tech Tech All Personal Tech TVs Tech All TVs Audio Tech All Audio Computers Cameras Pets Main Menu All Pets Dogs Pets All Dogs Cats Pets All Cats Pet Care Pets All Pet Care Lifestyle Main Menu All Lifestyle Sports Travel Lifestyle All Travel Parenting Apparel Lifestyle All Apparel Footwear Lifestyle All Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales Main Menu All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories Main Menu All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides Main Menu All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping More from NBC Sign up for the Selected Newsletter Check out Shop TODAY NBC News TODAY About Help Careers Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information CA Notice Terms Of Service NBC News Sitemap Advertise Ad Choices Follow Selected © 2026 NBCNEWS.COM NBC Selected independently determines what we cover and recommend. When you click on or buy through our links, we earn a commission. Learn more . Skin Care Dealing with rosacea and redness? Start with these derm-approved skin care products Rosacea is a common skin condition that causes redness and irritation. Dermatologists explain how to tame flare-ups. Updated Aug. 4, 2026, 10:39 AM EDT Mili Godio Updates Editor Skip to table of contents Environmental and emotional factors, including stress, heat and spicy foods, can be major triggers for rosacea flare-ups. Kara Birnbaum / NBC In this article Our top picks Best skin care for rosacea and redness How I picked the best products for rosacea and redness What causes rosacea? What ingredients are safe for rosacea? Frequently asked questions Meet our dermatologists Why trust NBC Selected? See 5 More If your face constantly struggles with redness and irritation, you may be dealing with rosacea , a common skin condition that impacts more than 14 million people in the U.S. alone, according to the American Academy of Dermatology . It’s most common in people between the ages of 30 and 50 years old, and since there’s no cure, many are left with the difficult task of treating their own flare-ups. I've written about expert-backed solutions to common skin care concerns for over six years and suffer from moderate rosacea myself. I spoke to dermatologists about common triggers of rosacea flare-ups and how to avoid them, plus the best skin care ingredients to help tame redness and inflammation. I also compiled a list of expert-approved cleansers, sunscreens , moisturizers and more to consider for rosacea, and NBC Selected staff favorites. Selected. Our top picks Best moisturizer La Roche Posay Toleraine Double Repair Face Moisturizer $undefined $24.99 Amazon Learn more Best facial spray Tower 28 SOS Daily Rescue Facial Spray $undefined $12.00 Amazon Learn more Best cleanser Vanicream Gentle Facial Cleanser $undefined $9.97 Amazon Learn more Best serum for redness Prequel Redness Reform Soothing Serum $20.00 $20.00 Prequel Learn more Best azelaic acid cream The Ordinary Azelaic Acid Suspension 10% Exfoliator $9.76 $12.20 Amazon Learn more Best for redness Clinique Redness Solutions Daily Relief Cream $54.40 $68.00 Amazon Learn more Best acne treatment Differin Acne Treatment Gel $13.48 $15.99 Amazon Learn more Best sunscreen EltaMD UV Clear Face Sunscreen SPF 46 $undefined $45.00 Amazon Learn more See 5 More Related selected selected I tried 20+ foundations over two months — these are the best ones for my rosacea-prone skin Want more from NBC Selected? Sign up for our newsletter, The Selection, and shop smarter. Best skin care for rosacea and redness Listed below are expert-recommended moisturizers, facial cleansers, serums, sunscreens and more to help tame redness and irritation from rosacea. Products used by myself and other rosacea-prone NBC Selected editors are also included. Best overall moisturizer La Roche Posay Toleraine Double Repair Face Moisturizer 50,729 Amazon Reviews $ 24.99 Amazon $ 25.99 Ulta What to know What we like Helps restore skin barrier Lightweight formula Up to 48 hours of hydration Something to note Nothing to note at this time La Roche-Posay is an expert-recommended brand for people dealing with rosacea or acne-prone skin (or both). I use this moisturizer every night before bed since it’s both gentle on my rosacea and hydrating enough to keep my flaky, dry skin at bay. The moisturizer has ceramides and niacinamide, both of which can help soothe and calm rosacea flare-ups, says Dr. Erum Ilyas , a board-certified dermatologist at Schweiger Dermatology. I pair this moisturizer with the brand’s Toleriane Hydrating Gentle Cleanser , which is a gel face wash that maintains my skin’s moisture and doesn’t irritate it (unlike most other cleansers). Best serum for redness Prequel Redness Reform Soothing Serum $ 20.00 Prequel $ 19.99 Target What to know What we like Neutralizes redness Soothes irritation Light and fast-absorbing Something to note Very small bottle “ Prequel is one of my absolute favorite brands that I use year-round no matter what state my sensitive, eczema-prone skin is in. I know their products are safe and will prevent and combat my flare-ups,” says former NBC Selected associate reporter Bianca Alvarez . “It’s one of those brands that just gives me peace of mind, especially because I know they have multiple seals of acceptance.” This serum has both the National Rosacea Society and the National Eczema Association’s seal of acceptance, so it’s safe for very sensitive skin. It blends arnica, oat and vitamin F to calm the skin and a slight green tint to neutralize redness, according to the brand. It’s fragrance-free and you can use it day and night. Best facial spray Tower 28 SOS Daily Rescue Facial Spray 5,214 Amazon Reviews $ 12.00 Amazon $ 12.00 Sephora What to know What we like Fragrance-free Soothes redness Great for post-gym Something to note Heavy spritz I’ve been a huge fan of Tower 28 for years, specifically its barrier cream and this facial spray, both of which have the National Rosacea Society’s seal of approval . The SOS Daily Rescue spray went viral on social media because it instantly reduces redness and soothes irritation (a huge plus for those with rosacea). It has hypochlorous acid , which has anti-inflammatory and antibacterial properties, according to the brand. I spray this on my face after every workout, especially when I can’t get to the shower for a little while — it turns down the heat- and sweat-induced redness on my face, and makes my skin feel clean without needing to fully cleanse. Best overall cleanser Vanicream Gentle Facial Cleanser 34,746 Amazon Reviews $ 9.97 Amazon $ 9.97 Walmart $ 12.99 Ulta What to know Key ingredients: glycerin | Formula type: cream-gel | Fragrance-free: yes What we like Helps with oil control Great for very sensitive skin Something to note Nothing to note at this time For people with very sensitive skin (especially those who might feel a burning or stinging sensation when trying new products, which is common with rosacea), experts recommend Vanicream. This cleanser has the National Eczema Association’s Seal of Acceptance — the program evaluates products based on the NEA’s criteria of ingredients and contents to ensure they’re beneficial for people with sensitive skin. The dermatologists I spoke to also recommend the brand’s moisturizing cream for very dry, sensitive skin, which is also one of our favorite moisturizers for dry skin . Best azelaic acid cream The Ordinary Azelaic Acid Suspension 10% Exfoliator 8,242 Amazon Reviews $ 9.76 $ 12.20 Amazon Now 20% off $ 9.76 $ 12.20 Ulta Now 20% off $ 12.20 Sephora What to know What we like Exfoliating Non-irritating Good for sensitive skin Something to note Creamy texture Ilyas recommends this azelaic acid cream to help tone down redness, even out skin tone and decrease dark spots caused by bumps and blemishes. The serum has 10% azelaic acid and is gentle enough to use up to twice a day, according to the brand. Best cream for redness Clinique Redness Solutions Daily Relief Cream 2,955 Amazon Reviews $ 54.40 $ 68.00 Amazon Now 20% off $ 68.00 Clinique What to know What we like Very soothing Color-correcting green hue Lightweight Something to note Nothing to note at this time Clinique’s Redness Solutions product line includes cleansers, moisturizers and sunscreens that can benefit those prone to redness and rosacea. Though the products typically look green when you initially apply them, experts say the green hue goes away when you blend it into the skin. In fact, the green particles work to camouflage the red color, according to the dermatologists I spoke to. The Clinique Daily Relief Cream is a great option if your skin has blotchy red spots: Not only does the cream reduce the appearance of redness, but it also gently calms irritated skin, according to Clinique. Best foaming cleanser Aveeno Calm + Restore Redness Foaming Cleanser 1,837 Amazon Reviews $ 9.97 Amazon What to know What we like Specializes in redness relief Helps remove makeup Something to note Foaming formula Foaming agents can often be too harsh on rosacea-prone skin because they remove most of the oil on the face, which can lead to even more dryness and flaking, experts say. However, there are a few that can be safe for sensitive, rosacea-prone skin, including this Aveeno cleanser . “It has calming and hydrating ingredients to balance the foam of the cleanser, so those that need their cleanser to foam in order to feel clean can [use it] while limiting the risk of excess dryness,” says Ilyas. Best overall sunscreen EltaMD UV Clear Face Sunscreen SPF 46 48,091 Amazon Reviews $ 45.00 Amazon $ 45.00 Elta Md $ 45.00 Dermstore What to know What we like Good for sensitive skin No white cast Oil-free formula Something to note Nothing to note at this time The EltaMD UV Clear Sunscreen is a favorite among experts and NBC Selected staff because it’s free of heavy moisturizers that can clog pores, plus has niacinamide, which acts as a natural anti-inflammatory ingredient that tames rosacea. It’s the only sunscreen I’ve tried that doesn’t flare up my rosacea and soothes any blotchy redness on my face. Similarly, former NBC Selected managing editor Leah Ginsberg uses it on her fair, sensitive skin every day following her dermatologist’s recommendation because it doesn’t cause flare-ups for her, either. “I [also] love the texture and it never burns my eyes if I sweat,” she says. The mineral-based sunscreen has zinc oxide, an ingredient that’s better suited for sensitive skin compared to chemical filters, experts say. Best for mature skin Senté Dermal Repair Cream $ 167.00 Dermstore $ 167.00 Sente Labs What to know What we like Reduces fine lines/wrinkles Very hydrating Soothes irritation Something to note Expensive This Senté cream has heparan sulfate analog, an ingredient that mimics the naturally-occurring molecule heparan sulfate, which reduces redness and hydrates the skin. This cream is a favorite of Ginsberg: “I have mature skin, and rosacea can complicate finding skin care to help with fine lines because sometimes active ingredients can cause a flare-up,” she says. Her dermatologist recommended the Senté Dermal Repair Cream, which she says noticeably soothes her rosacea-prone skin. “It’s on the thicker side, so it really moisturizes, but it feels light on my skin and absorbs well. It is on the expensive side, but it’s worth it.” Best budget-friendly cleanser Cetaphil Gentle Skin Cleanser 15,594 Amazon Reviews $ 13.44 $ 15.49 Amazon Now 13% off $ 12.74 $ 16.99 Ulta Now 25% off $ 13.44 Walmart What to know What we like Easy to take off No heavy fragrance Extremely gentle Something to note Not designed to remove makeup Cetaphil’s Gentle Skin Cleanser is an NBC Selected Wellness Awards winner and comes recommended by dermatologists thanks to its gentle, non-foaming formula that hydrates and soothes rosacea-prone skin. Ginsberg says she’s used this cleanser since she was 16 years old and loves that it’s both affordable and gentle on her skin. “It’s also great for travel because you don’t have to rinse it off with water — you can massage it in and then (gently) wipe it off,” she says. Best acne treatment Differin Acne Treatment Gel 8,585 Amazon Reviews $ 13.48 $ 15.99 Amazon Now 16% off $ 22.49 CVS Pharmacy What to know Formula type: gel What we like Helps multiple types of acne No fragrance Something to note May initially dry skin Though retinoids can be too harsh on sensitive skin, they can still work for those who are rosacea-prone if they’re introduced slowly, starting with just once a week before building up tolerance. “I find the best approach is to first create a simplified routine that directly addresses the rosacea, followed by consideration of adding retinol and retinoids once inflammation in the skin is under control,” says Ilyas. Adapalene gel, which is an OTC retinoid treatment that treats mild to moderate acne and blackheads, is considered a milder retinoid compared to other options like tretinoin and tazarotene, says Illyas. Both she and Dr. Gabriela Soza , a board-certified dermatologist at Wexler Dermatology, recommend Differin Gel (which contains 0.1% adapalene) as a suitable acne-fighting option for people with rosacea. Best barrier cream Avène Cicalfate+ Restorative Protective Cream $ 26.49 Target $ 19.50 $ 26.00 Ulta Now 25% off What to know What we like Repairs skin barrier Good for sensitive skin Calms irritation Something to note Expensive Thick texture Ginsburg recommends this Avène cream to anyone looking to repair their skin barrier. “As I’ve gotten older, my skin has become more dull, and I refused to give up my at-home peel pads even though they’re not good for my rosacea,” she says. “So, I needed the most soothing barrier repair cream I could find to use after — I tried [this cream] and haven’t looked back.” It’s extremely thick (almost like toothpaste consistency, but silkier), says Ginsberg, so she warms it up in her hands before applying it. “When I first put it on, it leaves a pretty greasy sheen, but overnight, it sinks into my skin and I wake up completely hydrated without a hint of redness,” she says. Best for sensitive skin Cetaphil Body Moisturizing Cream $ 11.96 Amazon $ 10.97 Walmart What to know What we like No fragrance A little goes a long way Easy to control application Something to note Nothing to note at this time We love using Cetaphil's gentle cleanser for washing our faces without stripping or irritation, and this moisturizing cream is a great option for those with sensitive skin. The cream, which earned the top spot on our list of 100 best moisturizers , has a non-greasy formula with no added fragrance to avoid irritation. It can also provide up to 24 hours of hydration, according to the brand. If you’re looking for a daytime moisturizer, Cetaphil’s Redness Relieving Daily Facial Moisturizer has SPF 20 and a tinted formula to reduce the appearance of redness. Best bar soap Dove Sensitive Skin Beauty Bar $ 12.97 Walmart What to know What we like Cleanses both face and body Great for very sensitive skin Something to note Bar formulation One of our favorite bar soaps (and one I personally use for my rosacea-prone neck and chest), Dove’s Beauty Bar is a great budget-friendly cleanser for sensitive skin, says Dr. Apple Bodemer , a board-certified dermatologist and associate professor of dermatology at the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health. The hypoallergenic formula is safe to use as both a facial cleanser and body soap, and it has mild and moisturizing ingredients like glycerin that can help maintain the skin’s natural moisture barrier, says Bodemer. Best nighttime lotion CeraVe PM Facial Moisturizing Lotion 62,760 Amazon Reviews $ 14.97 $ 19.99 Amazon Now 25% off $ 19.99 Ulta What to know What we like Easy-to-use pump bottle Oil-free formula Something to note Nothing to note at this time This Cerave nighttime lotion, one of our favorite moisturizers for acne-prone skin , has ceramides that can help restore the skin barrier and soothe rosacea-prone skin, says Ilyas. You can also purchase the brand’s AM Facial Moisturizing Lotion for the daytime, which has a gentle formula and SPF 30 (the minimum amount of sun protection recommended by experts). Best tinted sunscreen Eryfotona Ageless Sunscreen Zinc Oxide 4,993 Amazon Reviews $ 78.00 Amazon $ 78.00 Isdin $ 78.00 Dermstore What to know What we like Helps minimize lines/wrinkles Lightweight formula Tinted and non-tinted options Something to note A bit expensive Narrow shade range This Isdin tinted sunscreen can cover up redness and protect the skin against the sun, which is rosacea’s biggest trigger, says Soza. It also has peptides and antioxidants to also help minimize signs of fine lines and wrinkles, according to the brand. Best budget-friendly serum The Inkey List Azelaic Acid Serum $ 20.00 Sephora $ 20.00 The Inkey List $ 20.00 Kohl's What to know Type: serum | Concentration: 10% What we like Reduces redness Safe for sensitive skin Lightweight formula Something to note Not for intense redness This azelaic acid serum , which comes recommended by Ilyas, has green-colored micro particles that can help mask redness. It also has 0.3% allantoin, which is a chemical compound that can help soothe irritation, according to the brand. How I picked the best products for rosacea and redness To curate this list, our experts recommended I keep the following factors in mind: Gentle ingredients: Look for products that are fragrance-free with gentle, hydrating ingredients to soothe irritated skin, including niacinamide , hyaluronic acid , ceramides and aloe. Azelaic acid is also a gentle acne-fighting ingredient that can help prevent and reduce bumps caused by rosacea, experts say. Sun protection: Experts recommend wearing sunscreen with broad-spectrum SPF 30 or higher to avoid further redness and irritation. Consider mineral-based sunscreens , which have zinc oxide or titanium dioxide rather than chemical filters, and are often less irritating for those with sensitive, rosacea-prone skin. Product type: Experts recommend a “less is more” approach in your routine — focus on using moisturizers, facial cleansers, serums and sunscreens that are specifically formulated for sensitive skin , and avoid any harsh exfoliants, scrubs and alcohol-based toners. It’s important to be cautious when using acne treatments or retinol— they can be harsh on sensitive, rosacea-prone skin, according to the dermatologists I spoke to. What causes rosacea? Triggers for rosacea flare-ups vary from person to person, but the most common ones are sun exposure and heat, experts say. Other triggers include alcohol, spicy foods, hot beverages and chocolate. Rosacea is best known as an inflammatory skin condition, meaning the skin reacts to a trigger, which results in broken blood vessels and an increased sensitivity overall, says Ilyas. Unlike most people who have a baseline level of redness to their complexion, people with rosacea can experience recurrent flushing and bumps that look like acne breakouts, which can be accompanied by warmth, burning, itching and other skin sensitivities. “I like to joke with my patients that all the fun things in life can trigger rosacea,” says Soza. Emotional triggers can also be a cause of rosacea for many people, according to Bodemer. What ingredients are safe for rosacea? Experts recommend gentle, hydrating ingredients like niacinamide, hyaluronic acid and aloe. More on those below: Niacinamide and hyaluronic acid hydrate the skin and soothe irritation. Aloe and ceramides work to restore the skin’s moisture barrier and prevent it from drying out, says Ilyas. Azelaic acid helps unclog pores and prevents and reduces bumps caused by rosacea. This ingredient also works to even out your skin tone by reducing redness and inflammation of the skin. “Azelaic acid is even FDA-approved for rosacea to help treat the inflammatory papules and pustules (red bumps and whitehead-like breakouts),” says Soza. You should also focus on wearing a mineral-based sunscreen with broad-spectrum SPF 30 or higher. “I cannot emphasize the importance of sun protection and sunscreen enough,” says Soza. Mineral sunscreens (also called physical blockers) contain zinc oxide or titanium dioxide rather than a chemical base, so they don’t absorb into the skin and can be less irritating for those prone to rosacea, she says. Frequently asked questions How can you best manage your rosacea? Since there isn’t a known cure for rosacea, the best way to manage it is to figure out your specific triggers and avoid them when possible. Keep a symptom diary to track when you flare-up and jot down what you did before it, including what you ate. “I see people who are very sensitive to simple carbohydrates, so when they're eating more junk food and more processed sugars they will tend to flare more,” says Bodemer. Because people with rosacea tend to have dry and flaky skin that’s both sensitive and reactive, they’re more likely to have certain reactions to skin care products, says Bodemer. When crafting a gentle skin care routine, it’s important to first see a board-certified dermatologist who can evaluate your rosacea and come up with a treatment plan, which may include one or more prescription medications like doxycycline (an oral antibiotic) and metronidazole (a topical treatment). What type of products should you avoid with rosacea? Take a “less is more” approach when crafting a skin care routine for rosacea, says Ilyas. Taking a closer look at your skin care products, eliminating redundancy and choosing multitasking products can reduce the chances of using items that can potentially aggravate the skin over time, she says. That means skipping out on common skin care additions like toners (including witch hazel and alcohol-based toners that can aggravate rosacea), acne treatments, retinol and exfoliants. Be mindful of certain acne treatments People may consider acne treatments to help with rosacea bumps, but that may only make rosacea worse, according to Ilyas. “Although people can get breakouts with rosacea, they are not the same — anyone with rosacea that has tried to ‘pop’ their pimples will tell you it doesn’t work,” she says. Avoid acne-fighting products with harsh ingredients like benzoyl peroxide and salicylic acid , which can irritate sensitive, rosacea-prone skin. Both Ilyas and Soza recommend using azelaic acid to control acne instead. Limit your retinoid usage Retinoids can dry out the skin and sometimes cause rosacea flare-ups, so it’s best to avoid them if you have moderate to severe rosacea. However, people with mild rosacea don’t necessarily have to stay away from them altogether: “You should ease into it and take it slow — start applying once a week, increasing frequency as you build tolerance,” says Soza. If you choose to use retinol or a retinoid, apply a small pea-sized amount to the full face, and use the “moisturizer sandwich technique,” which means you moisturize, apply the treatment and then moisturize again, says Soza. “This will help your skin stay hydrated while still maintaining efficacy,” she says. Avoid harsh exfoliants Exfoliating can be a key step in any weekly skin care routine, and people with rosacea may be tempted to exfoliate to help reduce the flaky dead skin caused by the condition. However, experts say you should avoid exfoliating altogether if you have rosacea. “The more you inflame the skin [with exfoliants], the more flaking you’re going to have,” says Bodemer, adding that the flaking on the skin is due to the inflammation caused by rosacea. You should also avoid any products that have small beads or require scrubbing. If you’re really insistent on exfoliating, simply use water and a soft washcloth, experts say. Ilyas recommends limiting or avoiding the use of alpha hydroxy acids (AHAs) and beta hydroxy acids (BHAs), which are chemical exfoliants. “Although people with rosacea may use these for anti-aging benefits, care should be taken to avoid excess irritation — rosacea alone can make the skin sensitive and adding in chemical exfoliation can aggravate this irritation,” she says. What’s the difference between rosacea and acne bumps? Though rosacea breakouts may look like adult acne, they don’t behave as such. “You go to pop the ‘pimple,’ but they don’t really come to a head [and] they just get angrier at you,” says Ilyas. “This is followed by the skin starting to swell or thicken, taking on an ‘orange-peel’ appearance with widened patulous pores.” The location of the bumps on your face can also help you figure out whether they’re regular pimples or the result of rosacea. “Hormonal acne or other forms of adult acne tend to involve more of the lower face, whereas with rosacea we see the involvement of the nose, the central part of the cheeks and the center of the forehead,” says Bodemer. Meet our dermatologists At NBC Selected, we work with experts who have specialized knowledge and authority based on relevant training and/or experience. We also take steps to ensure that all expert advice and recommendations are made independently and with no undisclosed financial conflicts of interest. Dr. Erum Ilyas is a board-certified dermatologist at Schweiger Dermatology. Dr. Ilyas specializes in adult and pediatric medical dermatology, cosmetic dermatology and skin cancer treatment. Dr. Apple Bodemer is a board-certified dermatologist and associate professor of dermatology at the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health. Dr. Gabriela Soza is a board-certified cosmetic dermatologist at Wexler Dermatology in New York City. Why trust NBC Selected? I am an updates editor at NBC Selected who has written a variety of skin care stories, including treatments for cystic acne , keratosis pilaris and dark under-eye circles . For this article, I spoke to three dermatologists about how to tame rosacea and highlighted their recommendations for the best products to consider. I also included recommendations from NBC Selected editors who have rosacea. Catch up on NBC Selected’s in-depth coverage of tech and tools , wellness and more, and follow us on Facebook , Instagram , Twitter and TikTok to stay up to date. Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off Mili Godio Mili Godio is the updates editor for NBC Selected. Her expertise lies in wellness, skin care, hair care and pets. Dealing with rosacea and redness? Start with these derm-approved skin care products The best keratosis pilaris treatments for smoother skin, according to dermatologists The best scar creams and treatments that actually work, according to dermatologists Latest articles Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off In this article Our top picks Best skin care for rosacea and redness How I picked the best products for rosacea and redness What causes rosacea? What ingredients are safe for rosacea? Frequently asked questions Meet our dermatologists Why trust NBC Selected? ABOUT CONTACT HELP CAREERS PRIVACY POLICY DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION CA NOTICE TERMS OF SERVICE NBC NEWS SITEMAP AD CHOICES ADVERTISE DEALS & SALES SKIN CARE HEALTH TECH NBCNews.com © 2026 SELECTED | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.