Up First briefing: Michigan primaries; Spokane fires; Todd Blanche : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Up First briefing: Michigan primaries; Spokane fires; Todd Blanche Five state primaries are being held today, and Michigan is a key focus for Democrats who want to see how progressives fare in races. And, a man has been arrested in connection with a Spokane fire. Special Series Up First Newsletter All Up First Stories Up First Podcast Morning Edition LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music RSS link 5 states hold primaries today. And, Spokane police arrest man connected to wildfire August 4, 2026 7:29 AM ET By Brittney Melton Blanche and the DOJ, Michigan Primaries, Spokane Wildfires Listen · 13:10 13-Minute Listen Playlist Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/g-s1-137277/nx-s1-mx-5919151-1" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Transcript Good morning. You're reading the Up First newsletter. Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox, and listen to the Up First podcast for all the news you need to start your day. Today's top stories Kansas, Michigan, Missouri, Virginia, and Washington hold their primary elections today. The spotlight will be on Michigan, where winning an open Senate seat is crucial for Democrats as they vie to regain control of the chamber. Michigan voters will choose between two Democratic candidates who are competing to face Republican former Congressman Mike Rogers in the November midterm elections. Here's what you should know about the five states holding primaries today . A man walks outside Lincoln Liquor & Wine on Monday in Oak Park, Mich. The highly contested Democratic primary for U.S. Senate is bringing national attention to Michigan ahead of voting on Tuesday. Finn Gomez/Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Finn Gomez/Getty Images 🎧 NPR's Sam Gringlas tells Up First he has spoken with around 50 voters in the past two weeks , and the conversations have shown him the intensity of this Senate race. He says the race has become a proxy for major debates within the Democratic Party: establishment versus insurgent, further-left versus more moderate , and more. Congresswoman Haley Stevens, who flipped a suburban House district in 2018, is facing Abdul El-Sayed, a former public health official, for the Democratic nomination. Stevens is emphasizing her crossover appeal and support for Michigan manufacturing. El-Sayed champions Medicare for All and wants to eliminate corporate money from politics. Gringlas says the race will help determine if a leftist candidate like El-Sayed can win in a battleground state. ➡️ It's not just Michigan: Democratic elections in Midwest states like Wisconsin and Minnesota have also become pivotal testing grounds to determine whether progressive candidates can win in competitive states. ➡️ There are 36 races for governor this year. Here is a look at how they are shaping up . Sponsor Message The Senate Judiciary Committee is expected to move forward with Acting Attorney General Todd Blanche's confirmation vote today after Republican Sens. John Cornyn and Thom Tillis dropped their objections . Their change of heart came after Blanche provided written confirmation that the controversial $1.8 billion "anti-weaponization fund" established by the Department of Justice would be rescinded. The fund, which was created as part of a settlement deal for a lawsuit Trump filed against the IRS, had been a sticking point in Blanche's confirmation process. Critics pointed out its potential to compensate the president's allies and the Jan. 6 rioters. Blanche also provided written confirmation that a tax immunity deal that was part of the settlement would only apply retroactively to the president, two of his sons and the Trump organization. With the fund off the table, Cornyn and Tillis released a statement yesterday saying they "look forward to voting to advance his nomination out of the Senate Judiciary Committee soon." 🎧 NPR's Ryan Lucas points out that legal experts say neither of the documents Blanche released is legally binding , nor do they provide the guarantees they purport to provide. He adds that these legal experts and some department veterans think there's a long list of other issues that should make Congress question Blanche's leadership, including his handling of the Epstein files. Sponsor Message The Spokane County Sheriff's Department has arrested 37-year-old Aaron Farinacci on charges of first-degree arson in connection with one of the area's most destructive fires. Firefighters in Spokane, Wash., are battling three major wildfires — the Old Trails Fire, Autumn Lane Fire, and Fairview Fire — that have displaced around 65,000 people since last weekend. The fires have burned over 7,000 acres and destroyed approximately 600 homes. Photos from the area show the extent of the devastation. 🎧 Evacuated residents may not be able to return home for days as unpredictable winds pick up, shift direction and threaten neighborhoods, NPR's Kirk Siegler says. Choking back tears, 54-year-old Charlie Patrick tells Siegler that she doesn't know if she has a home to return to. The Spokane fires ignited in the wildlands outside the city, but winds carried them into neighborhoods, where structures fueled their spread . Spokane has faced hotter, drier conditions due to climate change. Siegler says fire officials in the area have been warning and worried about wildfire risks for years. After months of investigating, the bipartisan House Ethics Committee published a 20-page report recommending that Rep. Chuck Edwards (R-N.C.) be censured because of Edwards' " persistent unprofessional and inappropriate conduct towards two young female staffers." The committee said it did not find any evidence that the congressman propositioned or engaged in sexual activity with his staffers. The congressman's lawyers argued that the panel did not show that the staffers communicated their discomfort to Edwards. Picture show Claire Harbage/NPR Far out in the Pacific Ocean are tiny islands that few have seen. These pristine epicenters of biodiversity are teeming with life, from thriving coral reefs to sharks and seabird colonies. The Trump administration is now opening some of these waters — much of which are safeguarded as U.S. marine national monuments and sanctuaries — to commercial fishing. Hawaii's fishing fleet supports the move. People in the industry say they're facing increasing competition and rising diesel costs, and that opening the Pacific Marine Monument waters could give them more opportunities. But many Native Hawaiian cultural groups oppose this decision, viewing the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands as sacred. Conservationists also warn that, amid climate change, these marine areas require the highest level of protection to sustain their vibrant ecosystems. Sponsor Message 📷 This area, far out in the Pacific Ocean, rarely gets visitors ... but NPR journalists went and documented the wildlife there. See the images from their visit now on the NPR app. Today's listen Seven-year-old Khalib Townsend poses with conservation biologist Keith Russel at the Audubon Discovery Center in Philadelphia. Beck Harlan for NPR hide caption toggle caption Beck Harlan for NPR Seven-year-old Khalib Townsend is a first-grader with a huge love for nature and big dreams of becoming a conservation scientist. To help keep his early passion for science alive, NPR connected Khalib with someone who does his dream job: Keith Russell, a conservation scientist at the Audubon Discovery Center in Philadelphia. This spring, they went on a bird walk along the Discovery Center's nature trail, and Townsend got to interview Russell all about his career. NPR tagged along on the journey. Listen to their conversation and read about how the interview went . 3 things to know before you go U.S. Soccer and Mauricio Pochettino have agreed to a new contract that extends the men's national team coach's tenure through 2030. Martin Meissner/AP hide caption toggle caption Martin Meissner/AP Mauricio Pochettino has signed a new contract to remain the coach of the U.S. men's national soccer team through the 2030 FIFA World Cup, U.S. Soccer announced. Two people in Michigan have died from the cyclosporiasis outbreak that began in May, according to Michigan's Department of Health and Human Services. The federal government has dropped charges against three people accused of damaging the Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool. Prosecutors attributed the damage to a "botched installation" carried out by a contractor chosen by Trump. This newsletter was edited by Suzanne Nuyen . Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices