Opinion: E : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Opinion: E Europe is in another brutal heat wave. The summer's earlier record-breaking weather already damaged crops, sparked wildfires and led to increased deaths. Special Series Simon Says NPR's Scott Simon Shares His Take On Events Large And Small Opinion Opinion: Europe's summer of heat August 8, 2026 8:00 AM ET Heard on Weekend Edition Saturday Scott Simon ESSAY 08-08-26 Listen · 2:35 2-Minute Listen Playlist Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5916351/nx-s1-9880330" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Transcript Children cool off as they play football under a fountain next to the Manzanares river on June 23, 2026 in Madrid, Spain. Pablo Blazquez Dominguez/Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Pablo Blazquez Dominguez/Getty Images This is Europe's summer of heat. All 27 cities Italy's health ministry monitors, including Rome, Naples, Venice, and Bologna, are on red alert this week. People have been advised to avoid sunlight, sweet carbonated drinks, coffee and alcohol. Imagine trying to avoid sunlight, fizz, wine, and espresso in Italy. The World Meteorological Organization says this was the hottest June ever recorded in western Europe. And now the heat has returned. Great cities, like London, Paris, Madrid, Florence and Rome, that draw tourists to museums, markets, theaters, and restaurants, are considered especially open and exposed. Those beautiful cities are sculpted out of brick and stone, and connected by monumental asphalt avenues which absorb the heat, and hold onto it at night. Sponsor Message Officials in France are just beginning to get hold of the toll of the June heat wave. They count at least 5,700 "excess deaths" during the swelter that climbed to 111 degrees Fahrenheit in the early part of the summer. Many of those who died were elderly, often alone, in a stifling house or apartment. Germany recorded nearly 100 drownings during the worst of the June heat, many of them young men. Funeral homes have at times run out of space to store and prepare bodies for burial. Zouhaier Hertelli, a Paris funeral director, told the Associated Press this summer he has had to gently inform grieving families there was no room for their loved ones. "Families are suffering," he said. "We have no solution to offer them, because the funeral homes are full. We are really facing a problem, a big problem." It is hard for me to hear those words and not think of funeral homes in war zones I have covered, that have also been full. Scientists say the steady rise of heat caused by climate change may ignite more fires like the ones that swept France and Spain last month and those raging in the U.S., Canada and across the world. Sponsor Message The European Investment Bank and the European Commission released a study this summer that predicts farm losses in the European Union will climb in the coming decades, with droughts, heat and storms damaging crop yields and stressing animals. 2026 has been Europe's summer of heat. Until, perhaps, next summer; and summers to come. Americans, along with the rest of the world, know that feeling, too. Europe record heat climate change Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Nurse convicted in patient's death is now a national speaker on hospital safety Climate A record-breaking heat wave is hitting Europe News Haunted by Hoover, Trump searches for an endgame in Iran Music News Yo-Yo Ma unites musicians and civil rights leaders to reframe America's story Trump signs agreement with Iran. And, the president's approval hits record lows Immigration Private prisons announce $1.4 billion in revenue as immigration detentions climb More Stories From NPR Simon Says Opinion: Remembering Margo Howard Simon Says Opinion: New Jersey pizza, the fuel of world champions Simon Says Opinion: The continued courage of Captain Sully Simon Says Opinion: Is democracy a joke? Count Binface says no. Simon Says Opinion: America is still a work in progress Simon Says Opinion: Ranch dressing is a winner at the World Cup games Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org News Haunted by Hoover, Trump searches for an endgame in Iran Reproductive rights in America There's a birth control backlash online. Can it explain the rise in abortions? Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! ‘Wait Wait’ for August 8, 2026: With Not My Job guest Sally Field Space Solar eclipse to occur next week. Here is what to know Family Amid cost of living stress, many parents are supporting children well into adulthood Global Health This rising painter reimagines Renaissance art in a cocoa plantation in Cameroon NPR Editors' Picks World Yemen's Houthis claim attack on Aramco oil facility in Saudi Arabia, and other Middle East news NPR Music The Ripple Effect: Deadheads share their stories Strange News Meet the man circumnavigating the Arctic Ocean, alone Ukraine invasion — explained Ukraine mourns 'collector of souls' Oleksiy Yukov, killed recovering war dead The Americas K-pop's global wave inspires Chile's next pop stars World Switzerland is a neutral nation but has more nuclear bunkers than any country in the world Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices