Danish pupils will have to orally defend essays in attempt to combat AI cheating | AI (artificial intelligence) | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Education Schools Teachers Universities Students Upper secondary schools will be required to monitor how computers are being used for written exams. Photograph: Posed by models; Solskin/Getty Images View image in fullscreen Upper secondary schools will be required to monitor how computers are being used for written exams. Photograph: Posed by models; Solskin/Getty Images AI (artificial intelligence) Danish pupils will have to orally defend essays in attempt to combat AI cheating Government introduces several measures, including monitoring of computers, for pupils aged 16 to 19 Europe live – latest updates Miranda Bryant Nordic correspondent Thu 6 Aug 2026 07.58 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 15.42 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Danish teenagers will have to make an oral defence of their written essays to combat AI cheating, the government has announced. Pupils aged 16 to 19 at upper secondary school (known in Denmark as gymnasiet ) will also be encouraged to do written assignments at school under controlled conditions, including monitoring of their computer screens, rather than at home. The measures, announced on Thursday as pupils prepare to go back to school next week after the summer break, will come into immediate effect after Magnus Heunicke, the country’s education minister, demanded urgent action. “Unfortunately, we have a problem with AI cheating in upper secondary schools,” he said. “Action is needed now.” AI had posed a growing challenge to teaching and exams, the education ministry said. It is hoped the new measures will help to establish clearer guidelines for when pupils are not permitted to use it. The government is also preparing a comprehensive national strategy for AI use in all schools and the wider education sector. Heunicke said he would speak to schools, teachers and students to “ensure that AI does not undermine students’ competencies, professionalism and, not least, the ability to think for themselves”. The first measure to be introduced is the oral defence of exam assignments written at home. About 9,000 upper secondary school students each year write a big assignment (known as større skriftlige opgave or SSO), which they will now have to defend orally. The ministry said it would speak to schools about the best way to do this. Upper secondary schools will also be required to use monitoring tools to oversee how computers are being used for written exams. They are required to install firewalls to filter what is available on the school network during exams and teaching. The third measure is a plea to schools to encourage pupils to do more of their written assignments at school under controlled conditions, to “follow the students’ work process, provide relevant feedback and create a more accurate basis for assessment”. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Every day Sign up to Headlines Europe A digest of the morning's main headlines from the Europe edition emailed direct to you every week day Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion The ready availability of AI tools is upending education around the world for teachers and pupils, leaving governments scrambling to assess if and how they should intervene. In neighbouring Sweden, a study found that the number of students suspended or warned for unauthorised AI use rose by 688% between 2023 and 2025. The government has commissioned a review into how schools are tackling AI cheating, which will report back in April. Announcing the review, Lotta Edholm, the Swedish minister for upper secondary school, said in January: “There is no reason to turn a blind eye to cheating students. Cheating is completely unacceptable regardless of what form. It risks affecting grades that should reflect students’ knowledge and in the long term, students are not actually learning what they should.” Explore more on these topics AI (artificial intelligence) Denmark Europe news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Danish state could face legal action over deal that gives US powers on its soil 14 Feb 2026 Nato chief urges ‘thoughtful diplomacy’ after US treasury secretary’s jibe at Denmark 21 Jan 2026 Denmark to remove ‘pornographic’ mermaid statue, reports say 4 Aug 2025 Denmark rethinking 40-year nuclear power ban amid Europe-wide shift 14 May 2025 Denmark’s museum objects at risk from ‘extreme’ new mould, say conservators 6 May 2025 Nearly half of Danes see US as threat and 78% oppose Greenland sale, poll shows 31 Jan 2025 Danish PM says Europe must ‘stand together’ as Trump threatens Greenland 28 Jan 2025 On Denmark's Jutland coast an elegant new museum counters a Nazi monolith 24 Jun 2017 … … comments ‘I’ll sleep on dunes under the stars’: writer Ben Love on Denmark’s beautiful coast 19 May 2017 … … comments Highlights of Denmark: readers’ travel tips 2 Feb 2017 … … comments Most viewed Most viewed Education Schools Teachers Universities Students News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)