TikTok influencer's ex-husband sues to block her killer's family from her estate Skip to content NewsNation Sponsored By Toggle Menu Account Profile Log Out Newsletter Go Go Account Profile Log Out Newsletter Go Primary Menu Trending 🗳️ELECTION RESULTS 🥩US CATTLE 🏛️LINDSAY CLANCY All Topics Politics 2026 Election Crime Your Money Social Security calculator Budget calculator Mortgage calculator Credit card debt calculator Savings calculator Border Report Entertainment Missing Podcasts Reality Check Unreported Missing Bradley on the Border The Truth of the Matter Gamer Galaxy One Nation Under God Horror in the Heartland Shows Morning In America NewsNation Live Elizabeth Vargas Reports The Hill on NewsNation On Balance with Leland Vittert [CUOMO] Katie Pavlich Tonight Jesse Weber Live NewsNation PRIME The Hill Sunday Batya! Destination Qatar 🔴 NewsNation Live How To Watch NewsNation NewsNation TV Schedule More Sign Up For Newsletters Feedback Videos Network Your Morning Meet The Team Site Map Advertise with Us App Channel Finder How To Watch NewsNation NewsNation TV Schedule LIVE TV Trending 🗳️ELECTION RESULTS 🥩US CATTLE 🏛️LINDSAY CLANCY Influencer’s ex sues to block killer’s beneficiaries from her estate Jordan Perkins Updated: Aug 5, 2026 / 10:06 AM CDT Comments: Influencer Sara Gilson was killed by her estranged husband, Jeremiah Duffey, less than two weeks after making a video about him. (Brandon Johns/GoFundMe) ( NewsNation ) — The ex-husband of the social media influencer who authorities said was killed by her estranged second husband in a murder-suicide is suing to block his beneficiaries from inheriting any portion of her estate. The lawyers for Lyle Landers, Sara Gilson ‘s first husband, said in a court filing the 43-year-old died without a will and left an estate “consisting of personal property” in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Landers and Gilson had two children together before they divorced. Gilson later married Jeremiah Duffey, 48. Police said on July 23, Duffey shot and killed Gilson at her home in Owasso, Oklahoma. Just weeks earlier, she posted a video to TikTok accusing him of being a pedophile. Landers’ lawyers also wrote since Duffey “intentionally and feloniously took” her life, that means his beneficiaries should be barred from getting anything from her estate, citing the informally named “ slayer statute ” in the state of Oklahoma, which stops a person who killed someone from inheriting the person’s money or property. Sean ‘Diddy’ Combs’ release date moved — again Landers added he should serve as the administrator to Gilson’s estate, in order to “preserve and protect it” for their two children, who are minors. In early June, Gilson was granted an emergency protective order from Duffey after the pedophilia allegations against him emerged. Gilson previously sought protective orders against her estranged husband dating back to 2021, but those fell through when she did not show up to the hearings to make her case, according to The Oklahoman . In the requests, the allegations against Duffey included physical, verbal and emotional abuse. NBC News reports after her death, Landers said he repeatedly told his ex-wife to leave Duffey after hearing about the domestic abuse in their marriage. The killings are still under investigation. Add as preferred source on Google Crime Copyright 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Want to see more of NewsNation? Get 24/7 fact-based news coverage with the NewsNation app or add NewsNation as a preferred source on Google ! More Stories Attorney says South Carolina law failed Mica Miller Crime 24 minutes ago Woman charged with intimidation outside Clancy courthouse U.S. 2 hours ago Could Clancy withstand a second trial? Attorneys weigh possibilities Crime Flock cameras 'need safeguards,' Jim Jordan says On Balance with Leland Vittert West Nile Virus death reported in Chicago U.S. 1 hour ago Video Does Trump's beef import move hurt ranchers? The Hill on NewsNation Video Taco Bell ice cream taco returns Food What is the '764 Network'? Maine teen faces federal charges Crime Puppy left at highway rest stop gets second chance after rescue Good News Video More Stories House censures North Carolina Republican over allegations of inappropriate behavior with staffers Politics Video Trump's 'decoy plane' to be subject of new Netflix documentary Entertainment Couple sexually abused kids in semi-truck for years in Florida: AG Crime Video 'Black widow' accused of poisoning Florida man she met online Crime Video 21st birthday celebration ends in college student's death, officer charged Northeast Times Square stabbing victim identified as Bank of America VP Crime Video Rams owner Stan Kroenke to buy the Los Angeles Angels Sports Video Potential chemical contamination leads to tofu recall in 29 states Recalls and Consumer Alerts ATF doubling down on efforts to stop cartel firearms threat: Director Border Report Video US Army soldier charged with raping 12-year-old girl: Police Crime Video Liam's Legacy gives to kids fighting cancer, in his memory Good News Video Raccoon break-in leaves restaurant facing thousands in damage Mid-South Video Trending on NewsNation What Patrick Clancy knew before his kids were killed Video What happens if Lindsay Clancy jury can't reach a verdict? Video These are September's Social Security pay dates Video Federal trial delayed again for former pastor accused of stalking US completes strikes on Revolutionary Guard targets in Iran Video Lindsay Clancy's wheelchair is trial's 'silent star witness': Analyst Video Follow Us News App Get the iOS app Get the Android app from Google Play About Contact Meet The Team Channel Finder TV Schedule Video Closed Captioning CALM Act Certification Newsletters Site Map Privacy Policy About Our Ads Do Not Sell My Personal Information Privacy Policy 09/30/2025 Terms Of Use FCC Applications Public File Assistance Contact The Hill NewsNation BestReviews Content Licensing Advertise with Nexstar Journalistic Integrity Sitemap Cancel My Account Your Privacy Choices © 1998 - 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. | All Rights Reserved. ✕ Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Create a free account to enjoy commenting, audio articles and more. Enter your email and we’ll send a secure one-click link to sign in. No password needed. Please enter a valid email address By clicking "Unlock Live News" you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use , which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. By clicking "Unlock Live News" you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use , which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. Sign up or No Thanks NewsNation is provided by Nexstar Media Inc., and uses the My Nexstar sign-in, which works across our media network. Learn more at nexstar.tv/privacy-policy. NewsNation is provided by Nexstar Media Inc., and uses the My Nexstar sign-in, which works across our media network. Nexstar Media Inc. is a leading, diversified media company that produces and distributes engaging local and national news, sports, and entertainment content across its television and digital platforms. The My Nexstar sign-in works across the Nexstar network—including The CW, NewsNation, The Hill, and more. Learn more at nexstar.tv/privacy-policy. Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Check your email inbox We’ve sent an email containing a verification link which expires in 10 minutes. Try another email Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Thanks for registering! Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Are you sure you want to log out? Log out of all Nexstar properties Log out Cancel Enter your email to receive instructions to reset your password Sign in faster via a magic link sent to your inbox. Reset Password Email Me a Magic Link Email Sent! Check your inbox for instructions to access your account. If you don't see it, check your spam folder. Reset your password Enter a new password below to change your password Password requirements: At least 10 characters At least one number At least one special character At least one uppercase letter At least one lowercase letter RESET PASSWORD Password updated Your password has been reset. Please log in with your new password. Log in