Chipotle stock falls on link to salmonella outbreak in Minnesota Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Restaurants Chipotle stock falls on potential link to salmonella outbreak in Minnesota Published Tue, Aug 4 2026 1:54 PM EDT Updated 2 Hours Ago Amelia Lucas @Thxamelian WATCH LIVE Key Points Jalapenos served at Chipotle Mexican Grill restaurants in Minnesota may have been a potential source for a salmonella outbreak. Shares of Chipotle fell nearly 10% on the news. The chain has pulled the affected supply from restaurants and replaced it with peppers from different growers, according to the company. In this article CMG Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Employees serve customers at the first Chipotle fast-food restaurant in northeastern Mexico on its opening day in San Pedro Garza Garcia, July 16, 2026. Daniel Becerril | Reuters Chipotle Mexican Grill said Tuesday it temporarily pulled jalapenos from restaurants in Minnesota after learning that their supply may have been linked to a salmonella outbreak. Shares of Chipotle closed nearly 10% lower. "We have a robust ingredient traceability system and, upon learning of a potential Salmonella outbreak in the supply chain impacting several food service retailers, we proactively identified jalapeños as a potential common ingredient from a common lot, removed them from the restaurants where they had been distributed, and replaced them with product from different growers," Chipotle spokesperson Laurie Schalow said in a statement to CNBC. The stock reaction indicates investors see the news as a callback to Chipotle's past as the poster child for food safety issues . The burrito chain was implicated in at least five separate foodborne illness outbreaks between 2015 and 2018. Chipotle added more training for employees, sick days and an enhanced food safety program to put those troubles in the past, and it is now seen as an industry leader on the issue. Foodborne illness has also been top of mind for many consumers lately. The ongoing cyclospora outbreak has led to more than 6,700 cases confirmed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Michigan public health authorities on Monday also confirmed the first two deaths linked to the outbreak. Though Chipotle does not serve any ingredients linked to the cyclospora outbreak, the company said concerns about the foodborne illness affected its sales in the second half of July. Bloomberg first reported that Chipotle was pulling the jalapenos. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by