Salad and Go files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy amid cyclospora Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Restaurants Salad and Go files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy after cyclospora fears worsened its challenges Published Wed, Aug 5 2026 11:48 AM EDT Updated 5 Hours Ago Amelia Lucas @Thxamelian WATCH LIVE Key Points Salad and Go has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, saying that the cyclospora outbreak worsened its existing business challenges. The upstart salad chain aimed to take on Sweetgreen and expanded rapidly under the ownership of Volt Investment. Salad and Go will close all existing locations. A Salad and Go restaurant in Phoenix, Az. Source: Google Earth Salad and Go has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy and is closing all existing locations on Wednesday. The company said in a statement to CNBC that it sought bankruptcy protection due to prior strategic growth challenges, weakening consumer demand and higher costs. Diner fears around eating lettuce due to the ongoing cyclospora outbreak only worsened its issues. The water-borne parasite has sickened at least 10,000 people, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . Two people have died have died as a result of the outbreak, the Michigan Health Department said Monday. "A Cyclospora outbreak in July, in which Salad and Go was not implicated, weakened confidence across the industry and compounded these challenges," the company said in the statement. The foodborne illness outbreak has hurt more businesses than just Salad and Go. Yum Brands' Taco Bell saw its traffic plunge after the Food and Drug Administration linked iceberg lettuce served at some of its restaurants to the outbreak; the chain pulled the affected supply, and Yum executives have said that sales are already recovering. Other chains not linked to outbreak, like Chipotle Mexican Grill , have also seen their sales dip due to consumers' newfound mistrust of fresh lettuce. Founded in 2013, Salad and Go at one time aimed to take on Sweetgreen . It used commissary kitchens to wash its produce and prepare protein options, like chicken, before shipping out the ingredients to the restaurants that would assemble its salads or wraps. Private equity firm Volt Investment took a stake in Salad and Go and eventually bought out company founders Tony and Roushan Christofellis in 2021. Under then-CEO Charlie Morrison, who previously led Wingstop and currently heads Jersey Mike's , Salad and Go pursued an ambitious expansion plan, more than doubling its store count. Morrison left the company in late 2024, reportedly after disagreements with the board. Former Krispy Kreme CEO Mike Tattersfield took the reins in 2025. During his tenure, Salad and Go closed dozens of stores in Texas and Oklahoma. Those closures whittled the company's footprint down to about 70 locations in Arizona and Nevada, which will be permanently shuttered on Wednesday. "This is a painful day for everyone who built, worked for and loved Salad and Go," Tattersfield said in a statement. Salad and Go has assets valued between $500 million and $1 billion and liabilities in the same range, according to the company's bankruptcy filing on Tuesday. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by