Refuse collectors help Italian woman recover binned €1m lottery ticket | Italy | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development The instant win ticket was ‘miraculously still in one piece’ after it was found in a rubbish truck. Photograph: Alberto Pizzoli/AFP/Getty Images View image in fullscreen The instant win ticket was ‘miraculously still in one piece’ after it was found in a rubbish truck. Photograph: Alberto Pizzoli/AFP/Getty Images Italy Refuse collectors help Italian woman recover binned €1m lottery ticket Winner called waste management team after she realised stub showing she had hit the jackpot had been thrown away Agence France-Presse in Rome Tue 4 Aug 2026 11.41 EDT Last modified on Tue 4 Aug 2026 11.57 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google A €1m lottery ticket has been recovered from the rubbish in Italy after the frantic winner called on refuse collectors to help her retrieve it, according to the waste management company. The instant win ticket was “miraculously still in one piece” after garbage workers combed through mounds of rubbish on their truck, said Roberto Nicola Toscano, the administrator of the SANB company in Italy’s southern Puglia region. Toscano explained how when the winner went on Sunday to check her ticket at her local shop after the draw, the machine indicated it was “non-payable”. That was because smaller retailers can only redeem small wins. But the woman – who remains anonymous – didn’t realise she had won the big jackpot. “The winner always played the same numbers, as they were associated with a loved one,” Toscano said. When she returned home from the store, a family member told her that her regular numbers had won. They immediately ran back to the shop, only to discover the ticket had already been thrown away and the rubbish collected. She called Toscano. “We reconstructed the journey of the ticket, without much hope of finding it, as it had already been picked up by a garbage truck,” Toscano said With a stroke of luck, however, they managed to identify the correct lorry and stopped it. Given the risk posed by potentially dangerous material in the waste, they took the vehicle to a specialist company equipped to do the search, he said. The workers searched for over a day, finding various tickets and ticket stubs. “Among them was the stub we were looking for, which was miraculously still in one piece,” Toscano said. When he told the winner they had found it, “she cried with emotion”, he said. “I would have hugged her, but we were on the phone.” However, averting the disaster came at a price. SANB, located in Bitonto outside Bari, is a public agency, meaning that the cost of the search would have been borne by taxpayers. Toscano said the woman had to sign a promise to “cover all of the additional costs” incurred – a gamble that paid off. Explore more on these topics Italy Europe news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)