AMD's Lisa Su brushes off Musk's Nvidia AI chip commitment Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech Lisa Su brushes off Musk's Nvidia commitment as AMD stock sinks after earnings Published Wed, Aug 5 2026 5:16 AM EDT Updated Wed, Aug 5 2026 4:02 PM EDT Chris Eudaily @chrisudaily Kai Nicol-Schwarz @in/kains WATCH LIVE Key Points AMD CEO Lisa Su said she has "tremendous respect" for Elon Musk after the SpaceX CEO committed to use Nvidia AI chips exclusively. Nvidia stock climbed on Wednesday while AMD shares sank after the company posted Q2 earnings. AMD's second quarter earnings came in "slightly ahead" of consensus but fell below "more optimistic estimates," Deutsche Bank analysts said in a Wednesday note. In this article AMD NVDA SPCX Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 5:01 05:01 AMD CEO Lisa Su on Q2 results: We're in an extraordinary time for AI compute right now Squawk on the Street Advanced Micro Devices CEO Lisa Su on Wednesday brushed off comments from Elon Musk that SpaceX was committing to exclusively use Nvidia artificial intelligence chips. "I have tremendous respect for Elon and everything that he has done, and so we look forward to continuing to partner over the longer term," Su told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street." Musk said Tuesday on the company's earnings call that AMD's AI chip rival had "the best architecture" and touted the close cooperation and partnership with Nvidia. In May 2025, Musk told CNBC's David Faber that his AI company would buy chips from both companies , and possibly others. Nvidia shares closed 3.4% higher on Wednesday. Su called SpaceX "an incredibly important technology company" and said she's proud of the work AMD has done with them in several areas. She noted the company still has business with many tech companies, including those in the space market. AMD's stock closed 7% lower on Wednesday despite posting strong second-quarter earnings and guiding for Data Center segment growth "well over 100%." watch now VIDEO 4:25 04:25 AMD slumps despite record quarter Squawk on the Street Su reinforced that outlook to CNBC on Wednesday, and explained how the company is planning into 2027 and beyond. "We have much, much stronger customer visibility in this time frame," Su said. "And what customers are telling us is, you know, they want a lot more compute." AMD revenue climbed 50% to $11.54 billion in the second quarter, ahead of analyst expectations of $11.28 billion, in a sign of the company's central position in the market for AI chips. Data center sales drove much of the company's growth, up 107% on an annual basis to $6.7 billion, which the company attributed to central processing unit and graphics processing unit sales. Su told analysts on the earnings call Tuesday that the company expects server revenue to grow 80% year-over-year in the second half of 2026 and more than 70% for 2027. Su told CNBC on Wednesday that its customers are giving the company "much more opportunity to plan" with server supply. "As a result, we're making investments across the supply chain," she said. "We're working with our partners. We're making backend investments. We're making the investments in the entire ecosystem, such that we'll be able to supply at the much higher rate that our customers are asking for." But while second-quarter earnings came in "slightly ahead" of consensus, they fell below "more optimistic estimates," Deutsche Bank analysts said in a Wednesday note. AMD shares year-to-date. AMD has been a big beneficiary of the AI boom, with the stock trading up 132% so far this year. Confidence has been buoyed by the company's GPU and CPU products. "AI is driving a significant expansion in demand for compute across all of our markets," Su said in a Tuesday statement. "Our leadership portfolio and growing customer visibility position us exceptionally well to capture this expanding opportunity and deliver substantial revenue and earnings growth in the years ahead." Earnings failed to impress investors who've consistently been skittish this year of some AI stocks. In July, AMD raised its expectations for the size of the semiconductor industry, saying it could be worth $2 trillion per year by 2028. The chipmaker sees $1.4 trillion of that coming from AI accelerators, or GPUs, up from a previous estimate of $500 billion by 2028. "It's simply a case of market expectations being too high," Michael Field, chief equity strategist at Morningstar, told CNBC. "The stock has trebled in the last 12 months and now trades on a P/E multiple of 170, meaning expectations are commensurately high," he added. "We view the dip as a potential buying opportunity, and investors may take a similar view in the coming weeks." — CNBC's Kif Leswing helped contribute to this report. Read more CNBC tech news SpaceX revenue jumps 92% and AI costs soar in first earnings report since IPO NJ files antitrust suit against Amazon, alleging it unlawfully wielded power over delivery contractors Palantir stock skyrockets on 'otherworldly' commercial revenue — here's what's driving the demand How the 'Baby iPhone' and an Apple supplier leak explain China's recent supply chain moves Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by