Further arrests in Thetford as disorder continues for third night - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions Further arrests in Thetford as disorder continues for third night Image source, John Fairhall/BBC Image caption, Police make an arrest in Thetford on Thursday night as the market town braced itself for a third night of unrest By Matt Precey , in Thetford and Rachael McMenemy Published 6 August 2026 Updated 19 minutes ago More arrests have been made over disorder linked to anti-immigration protests that saw crowds attempt to storm the homes of suspected asylum seekers and a police officer "seriously bitten". Asylum seekers were removed from properties in Thetford, Norfolk, yesterday for their own safety, Norfolk Police said. Two men in their 40s were arrested as protests in the market town continued for a third night, bringing the total number held to five. Protesters attempted to enter homes where they believed asylum seekers were living on Tuesday and Wednesday night, when officers were also "subjected to significant aggression". Witnesses reported rocks and eggs being thrown and chants of "we want them out" during protests on Clover Way involving up to 200 people on Wednesday night. A male officer was struck with a rock and a female officer was seriously bitten, breaking the skin, the force said. Image source, John Fairhall/BBC Image caption, Dozens of police officers were stationed in Thetford for a third night as anti-immigration protests continue The disorder comes amid local disquiet over proposals to convert a former military base just over the border in Suffolk, RAF Barnham, into asylum seeker accommodation for up to 3750 people. Norfolk's chief constable Paul Sanford told the BBC: "We have moved asylum seekers away from properties in the town, that's absolutely correct." He urged the public not to make assumptions and said there were Thetford residents now "concerned for their own safety". "This is people's lives we're talking about," he said. "This is human beings we're talking about and we ask the public that are protesting just to think about that for a moment." There was a heavy police presence in the residential area of Canterbury Way on Thursday night. Policing powers were stepped up, with people required to remove face coverings and officers permitted to ask anyone they suspect of anti-social behaviour to leave the area. Image source, John Fairhall/BBC Image caption, People gathered in Thetford on Thursday for a third night of protests Residents who did not want to be named have told the BBC that there has been growing disquiet over the issue of housing. There is resentment at the perception that asylum seekers are getting free accommodation in an area where young people are struggling to get their own homes. There are also concerns about the perceived safety of women and girls, specifically around single adult men arriving and living in houses in multiple occupation (HMO). People explained they had been "kept in the dark" and said they have not been consulted on the issue. The attacks on officers followed unrest on Tuesday in St John's Way, Bracken Road and Elm Road, when properties were damaged with windows smashed and fences broken, and people attempted to break in to a residential property, police said. Sanford told the BBC the third consecutive night of disorder on Thursday had been "calmer". However, he said officers would remain for as long as needed and violence would not be tolerated. He said: "Some people have crossed the line and criminality, attacking police officers is just completely unacceptable. "Where that occurs we will respond strongly and robustly." Image source, Scott Hussey Image caption, Norfolk Police attended unrest at three addresses in Thetford on Tuesday and the disorder continued the following night A man in his 30s was arrested on suspicion of a public order offence on Wednesday afternoon following Tuesday's disorder. He was released and issued with a conditional caution. In the early hours of Thursday, two further arrests were made following Wednesday's unrest. One man aged in his 40s remains in custody, and a 68-year-old man from Thetford has been charged with possession of an offensive weapon, namely a wooden bat. Image source, PA Media Image caption, A large group stormed three properties including this one on Bracken Road, which protesters believed was being used to house asylum seekers Witnesses also claimed the police response on Wednesday was "heavy-handed" and a woman on a mobility scooter had been pepper-sprayed. In response, the police said Pava spray was "deployed proportionately" in response to a person's behaviour in the crowd. Sanford refuted any suggestions of excessive force by officers. Image source, John Fairhall/BBC Image caption, The South West Norfolk MP Terry Jermy said "mob rule and vigilantism is not acceptable" The Labour MP for South West Norfolk, Terry Jermy, said the unrest had "put Thetford back decades" after years of trying to improve the town's reputation. Speaking to the BBC on Friday, he said: "It's been awful the last few nights, it's been terrifying for many Thetford residents." He said he had been made aware of properties being "pelted with eggs" on Thursday and said the town was "on edge". He said the violence was "scaring and terrifying people who live in Thetford, particularly people from minority ethnic communities who are contacting me terrified that they are going to be misidentified as an asylum seeker and attacked". He urged fellow politicians to "call out" the violent protests and assaults of police officers. Jermy has previously called on the Home Office to end "secrecy and confusion" around plans to house more asylum seekers in former military barracks – including at RAF Barnham, near Thetford. Scott Hussey, a Reform councillor for the nearby Brecks division on Norfolk County Council, said a "peaceful protest" had started at the town's police station on Wednesday night before it moved to Clover Way. He described the protest as "spirited" and said there had been "some skirmishes" but said he saw no violence. He accused the Home Office of "opening a number of these HMOs across Thetford" and "trying to rush through the site for asylum seekers at Barnham". A Home Office spokesperson condemned the behaviour, warning that "anyone taking part in this criminal activity will face the full force of the law". They acknowledged concerns about immigration in Thetford but condemned the violence of some protesters. A spokesperson said: "The right to protest is fundamental to our democracy and the concerns of communities are central to our immigration reforms." Do you have a story suggestion for Norfolk? Contact us below. Get in touch Your Voice Contact form Contact form Follow Norfolk news on BBC Sounds , Facebook , external , Instagram , external and X , external . Related topics Thetford Norfolk Police Immigration Refugees and asylum seekers Related internet links Norfolk Police From other local news sites Abnormal load to crawl through county this weekend External North Norfolk News Major route reopens after police van crashes on its way to collision on same road External North Norfolk News People warned to shut windows and doors as firefighters battle field blaze External EDP 24 Safety warning in place at town's park and gardens External EDP 24 Jeremy Clarkson's beer and beef pie arrives at pubs across Norfolk External Great Yarmouth Mercury Hospital issues ‘extreme’ high demand warning for emergency department External Lynn News Information about BBC links to other news sites The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:05 What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:05, play video What we know about the Thailand school shooting 1:11 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 00:01:11, play video 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 0:39 How much rain will end the drought? 00:00:39, play video How much rain will end the drought? 1:43 Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment. 00:01:43, play video Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment 0:24 Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol. 00:00:24, play video Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol 1:00 What is 'food noise'? 00:01:00, play video What is 'food noise'? 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:00 What do people want from Argos? 00:01:00, play video What do people want from Argos? 0:58 Meet Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 New hope for Afghan women's football team. 00:01:19, play video New hope for Afghan women's football team 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house hit in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house hit in strike Top stories Live . Several dead after Thai teen shoots grandparents and schoolteachers 9111 viewing 9.1k viewing Thai pupil describes harrowing moment teacher was shot in front of her Published 42 minutes ago Officer who led PC Harper investigation 'appalled' killers could be released early Published 1 hour ago More to explore Argos is getting a makeover - but can it attract new shoppers? Lauryn Hill and Wyclef ‘in an amazing place’ as fans hope for new Fugees album after 30 years How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man ‘We have nowhere to return to’: How Russia is seizing homes in occupied Ukraine Sudan's invisible children - born in war with no legal identity First OpenAI, now Meta - why do AI hacks keep happening? The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 England footballer Toney charged with assault in Soho 2 Further arrests in Thetford as disorder continues for third night 3 Officer who led PC Harper investigation 'appalled' killers could be released early 4 How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man 5 Meta fined $567m in largest child safety ruling against social media giant 6 Trump again tries to limit US birthright citizenship with new executive orders 7 'Tories to end social housing for foreigners' and 'Bottoms down' 8 German airport drone-bomb: Could Russia be involved? 9 Argos is getting a makeover - but can it attract new shoppers? 10 Weekly quiz: Ed Sheeran got in trouble with the DVLA over which make of classic car? BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.