Man arrested at Trump’s California golf course wore earpiece and took photos, police say | Donald Trump | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness A view of Trump National Golf Club Los Angeles in Rancho Palos Verdes, California. Photograph: Jay L Clendenin/Getty Images View image in fullscreen A view of Trump National Golf Club Los Angeles in Rancho Palos Verdes, California. Photograph: Jay L Clendenin/Getty Images Donald Trump Man arrested at Trump’s California golf course wore earpiece and took photos, police say Jeanine John Taele faces new weapons charges as details of ‘suspicious’ behavior ahead of president’s visit emerge Uwa Ede-Osifo and agency Wed 5 Aug 2026 21.56 EDT First published on Wed 5 Aug 2026 18.28 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google A California man who was arrested at Donald Trump ’s Los Angeles-area golf course ahead of a presidential visit is facing more charges, as authorities released new details about the investigation. Authorities say federal agents first observed 38-year-old Jeanine John Taele near the golf grounds in Rancho Palos Verdes on 31 July, wearing an earpiece and capturing photographs and videos of security agents assessing the property. Taele returned on 2 August, authorities say, two days before Trump was scheduled to visit the resort for a fundraising dinner with the Republican National Committee (RNC). Taele approached federal agents and said he was employed by the state department and was there for a security detail. After detaining Taele for “suspicious” behavior, Los Angeles county sheriff’s deputies found a loaded magazine in his pocket. In his pickup truck, which was parked at the golf club, deputies found a loaded 9mm pistol, binoculars and a badge labeled “security protection agent”, authorities have said. Armed man arrested at Trump’s California golf course Read more Law enforcement officers also recovered a trove of armaments from his residence in the nearby city of Downey, including a .45-caliber pistol, body armor and an illegally modified AR-type pistol, among others, officials said. Law enforcement officials also located notebooks containing “concerning statements” in the home. The Los Angeles county sheriff’s office declined to comment on the nature of the remarks. Taele was due in court on Wednesday on a federal weapons charge but the hearing was canceled. He was charged federally with possession of an unregistered short-barreled rifle that was found at this home, authorities said. The complaint alleges the firearm is an illegally modified AR-style rifle with a barrel that was cut down to 10in (25cm) from 14in (35cm). He is being held at a downtown Los Angeles jail on state charges, according to booking records. He was not yet in federal custody, said a spokesperson for the US attorney’s office. Taele is facing a misdemeanor charge for carrying a concealed weapon in a vehicle and two felony charges for possession of a short-barreled rifle or shotgun and the manufacture, importation or sale of a large-capacity magazine, court records show. The Los Angeles county public defender’s office, which is representing Taele in the state criminal case, declined to comment. Trump addressed the arrest on Tuesday, telling Fox News that “only consequential presidents” are targeted, “and I am definitely consequential”, which he said brought him “a little solace”. Taele already appeared in court on state weapons charges and a second-degree robbery charge for an unrelated incident. “There is no room for error, particularly in light of previous attempts on President Trump’s life,” said Patrick Grandy, the assistant director in charge of the FBI’s Los Angeles office, in a statement. In April, Cole Tomas Allen, a California man who authorities say harbored resentment for the Trump administration, rushed past a security checkpoint during the White House correspondents’s association dinner, where the president was in attendance, and shot a firearm before being apprehended by Secret Service agents. He has been charged with an attempt to assassinate a US president, to which he has pleaded not guilty . In July 2024, a gunman opened fire at a rally where Trump was speaking as the Republican presidential nominee. A crowd member was killed and a bullet grazed Trump’s ear. Federal agents fatally shot the suspected shooter, 20-year-old Thomas Matthew Crooks. An FBI investigation found no clear motive behind the deadly shooting. Ryan Routh was recently sentenced to life in prison after being convicted of attempting to assassinate Trump on a Florida golf course in September 2024. Prosecutors said Routh spent weeks plotting to kill Trump before aiming a rifle through shrubbery as Trump played golf at his West Palm Beach country club. Taele was a corporal in the US marines who was deployed to Iraq in 2008 and Afghanistan in 2010 and worked as a warehouse clerk, according to the US Marine Corps. He earned numerous commendations, including an award for good conduct, during his service from 2008 to 2016. In October 2016, Taele was issued a California firearm permit for .40-caliber, .45-caliber and 9mm weapons, state records show. That permit expired in 2020. Taele was also a licensed security guard in the state between February 2019 and February 2025, records show. Explore more on these topics Donald Trump California Gun crime Los Angeles US politics West Coast news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)