GAO finds Elon Musk's DOGE inflated claims on federal government savings Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Politics & Policy GAO finds Elon Musk's DOGE inflated claims of $110 billion in savings for federal government Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 6:19 PM EDT Lora Kolodny @in/lorakolodny/ WATCH LIVE Key Points The Government Accountability Office found Elon Musk's Department of Government Efficiency inflated the $110 billion it said it saved the federal government. The GAO report was requested in June last year by Sens. Gary Peters (D-Mich.) and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.). The GAO said, among other examples, DOGE took credit for savings from leases that were being terminated before its work began, and DOGE made unverifiable claims of billions in savings. Elon Musk listens to U.S. President Donald Trump speak in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, D.C., U.S., Feb. 11, 2025. Kevin Lamarque | Reuters Elon Musk 's DOGE promised to slash $2 trillion in federal spending and to make the federal workforce lean and efficient. But even the cost savings it has claimed in an online "Wall of Receipts" of the smaller amount of $110 billion didn't check out, according to a report the Government Accountability Office published Thursday. The GAO evaluated $110 billion of savings DOGE claimed on a website with its "Wall of Receipts " from cuts including federal contracts, grants and leases. The GAO said it found multiple "issues limiting the transparency and reliability of these reported savings." Including additional categories beyond contracts, grants, and leases, DOGE tallied $215 billion in cuts, the GAO said. The findings further undercut claims by Musk and President Donald Trump that they have made meaningful cuts in government spending and call into question the effects of the DOGE effort that slashed federal spending with little notice to agencies and slashed hundreds of thousands of government jobs. The GAO found that of the 13,476 contracts DOGE claimed it terminated, "no termination action" was taken on 2,503 of them. The report also noted DOGE had claimed $113 million in savings from cuts to 264 leases, but GAO found that information overstated the savings. The leases cut and referenced on DOGE's website "actually summed to $53.5 million" in savings, the report found. Of the 264 leases, about 108 were already in the termination process before DOGE was formed after Trump began his second term as president, the GAO report also said. Read more CNBC politics and policy coverage Khanna to introduce ‘Data Center Bill of Rights’ as fight over AI power plants heats up Kids Online Safety Act social media safety bill advances in Senate Trump admin refunds $100 billion in ‘liberation day’ tariffs The report was requested last year by Sens. Gary Peters (D-Mich.) and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) who are, respectively, ranking members of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, and of the panel's investigations subcommittee. The GAO is recommending that the DOGE website should prominently caution readers that the site has data-quality problems and other limitations and is therefore not a reliable source of information. In their review, the GAO said it checked DOGE's Wall of Receipts claims about cut contracts, grants, and leases from Jan. 20, 2025, when Trump took office, through July 7, 2026, three days after DOGE announced on social media it had wound down. The GAO said it compared DOGE reporting to official data from publicly available federal databases. The GAO said DOGE did not respond to the its requests for information and interviews. "Everyone supports rooting out waste, fraud, and abuse in the federal government, but DOGE was a slapdash and deceptive effort that misled the American people while doing real damage to the government's ability to serve them," Peters said in a statement . Musk and the White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment from CNBC on the GAO report. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by