‘Super El Niño’ could bring wet winter and flooding to western US, climate scientists warn | US weather | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness El Niño-generated storm waves crash onto seaside houses at Mondos Beach, California, on 12 January 2016. Photograph: Mark Ralston/AFP/Getty Images View image in fullscreen El Niño-generated storm waves crash onto seaside houses at Mondos Beach, California, on 12 January 2016. Photograph: Mark Ralston/AFP/Getty Images US weather ‘Super El Niño’ could bring wet winter and flooding to western US, climate scientists warn Weather system tied to warming sea surface expected to intensify in fall and winter, persisting until early spring 2027 Uwa Ede-Osifo Sat 8 Aug 2026 15.21 EDT Last modified on Sat 8 Aug 2026 15.58 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google El Niño , a recurring climate phenomenon marked by above-average sea surface temperatures, when changes in wind patterns allow warmer water to spread across the central and eastern equatorial Pacific, could spell a wet winter for portions of the western and south-eastern US, climate models show. Coastal areas may be at elevated risk of flooding, experts warn. Climate scientists predict this year’s “super” El Niño, a label assigned when sea surface temperatures climb by at least 2C , will be the strongest of the century. The weather system is expected to intensify in the fall and winter, persisting until early spring 2027, according to the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (Noaa). El Niño could push 50m people into acute hunger before end of next year Read more California has a 70%-100% chance of experiencing above-average rainfall along its coast, according to a model from the European center for medium-range forecasts. “El Niño is never going to guarantee any particular outcome in any California winter,” Daniel Swain, the UCLA climate scientist, noted at a virtual El Niño town hall hosted by the California state senator Mike McGuire this week. But, he added, a weather event as strong as the one being currently predicted shifts the odds in favor of a wet winter: “That will likely affect and increase the likelihood of coastal flooding, particularly during strong storm events or during king tide events.” California has been devastated by El Niños in the past. A 1982-83 weather system destroyed 33 oceanfront homes and damaged 3,000 other residences, according to the California coastal commission . In a 1997-98 El Niño, California experienced massive flooding and 17 storm-related deaths . In more recent history, during the El Niño winter of 2015-16, state officials reported record coastal erosion on California beaches. “With less beach in front of the coastline, the waves will have even greater impact on the shoreline with more likelihood of flooding and undercutting of cliffs,” said Mark Merrifield of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, at McGuire’s town hall. El Niño is not expected to completely erase drought in the US south-west, where some reservoirs are at an all-time low. “It would have to be exceptionally wet,” Dr Joel Lisonbee, senior associate scientist at the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences at the University of Colorado Boulder, told the Guardian in June. “That would also mean flooding, and the destruction and potential loss of life that comes along with that.” Swathes of the US Gulf coast and east coast, stretching from Florida up to the mid-Atlantic region, are facing similar high odds of increased precipitation. During El Niño years, central and south Florida has historically experienced more severe weather with more tornadoes and flood events, according to Noaa . In a 1998 El Niño winter, an outbreak of unusually strong tornadoes in that region led to 42 deaths and more than $100m in damage. Experts warn that not every El Niño behaves the same, nor does it affect different geographical regions in the same way. Some have fueled hurricanes and heavy precipitation, while others have triggered extreme heat and drought. While this is “a natural cycle”, Merrifield said at the town hall, the potential effects of a temporary sea-level rise in California from the super El Niño also “gives us a bit of a stress test of what the state is likely to experience with future climate change”. “The El Niño, I think, is a good opportunity to sort of see where our vulnerabilities are throughout the state and what we can do to prepare,” Merrifield added, “and it also is a sobering look at what we can expect with climate change.” Explore more on these topics US weather El Niño southern oscillation Climate crisis in the American west Extreme weather Climate crisis California West Coast news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics Midterms 2026 World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)