Child among three dead in Russian nightly strikes near Kyiv - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat World Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East Child among three killed in Russian missile attacks near Kyiv Figure caption, Fire crews battle flames after deadly Russian strikes near Kyiv By Harry Sekulich and Dan Johnson , Ukraine correspondent Published 8 August 2026, 05:23 BST Updated 3 hours ago At least three people, including a child, have been killed in overnight Russian attacks near the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, a local official said. In the early hours of Saturday missiles hit east of the capital and witnesses reported hearing powerful explosions just days after strikes across Ukraine killed 21 people. The ballistic missile strikes killed three and wounded another three, head of the regional military administration Timur Tkachenko said, adding that falling debris damaged apartment buildings and cars, while a fire broke out at a separate building. Emergency crews were also fighting fires at a building and fuel tank in Kyiv, Mayor Vitaly Klitchko wrote on Telegram. Ukraine's state emergency service DSNS shared photos showing garages, a business and a building on fire in Kyiv, adding: "The number of victims is being clarified." President Volodymyr Zelensky has arrived in the Serbian capital Belgrade for his first visit. He is due to meet with Serbian President Aleksandar Vučić to discuss economic ties, security issues and relations with the European Union. Image source, Ukraine state emergency service DSNS Image caption, Garages ablaze in Kyiv's Holosiivskyi district after the latest Russian strike Zelensky is trying to build wider support for Ukraine, but Vučić has refused to apply sanctions to Russia. Serbia is trying to join the EU and has provided aid to Ukraine and promised to help it rebuild after the war. Earlier in the week, Zelensky said delays in receiving anti-ballistic systems from partners leads to "horrific casualties and destruction", saying that having a stronger interceptor capability "could have saved lives" in recent deadly assaults. The president later said the supply of interceptors from allies had been "significantly reduced" this year. It came after Ukraine hit two oil refineries deep inside Russia along with Moscow-linked vessels in the Black Sea, which Zelensky said was intended to limit oil revenues used by Russia to "finance" its war in Ukraine. The Ukrainian military hit Russia's Ilsky and Syzran oil refineries during overnight attacks, causing fires at both, the Ukrainian general staff said on Saturday. Recent mediation talks between Ukraine and Russia have faltered, leading to an escalation of attacks between both sides. Related topics War in Ukraine Russia Kyiv Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky More on this story How Ukraine is taking the war 'deeper' into Russia Published 1 day ago Russia strike kills 21 as Ukraine says it needs more missile interceptors Published 1 day ago Ukraine hits two oil refineries deep in Russian territory Published 1 day ago The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:28 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update. 00:00:28, play video 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update 1:17 The tech that could map every tree on earth. 00:01:17, play video The tech that could map every tree on earth 0:59 Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 00:00:59, play video Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 1:07 Riding England's longest zip wire. 00:01:07, play video Riding England's longest zip wire 1:21 How many different cubes can you make? 00:01:21, play video How many different cubes can you make? 2:01 Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape. 00:02:01, play video Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape 1:02 Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter. 00:01:02, play video Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter 1:17 What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:17, play video What we know about the Thailand school shooting 0:48 Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 00:00:48, play video Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 0:53 Are you hung up on hangers? 00:00:53, play video Are you hung up on hangers? 0:52 Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 00:00:52, play video Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 0:31 The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 00:00:31, play video The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 0:43 Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan. 00:00:43, play video Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan 0:33 Moment raiders drive car into service station. 00:00:33, play video Moment raiders drive car into service station 1:11 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 00:01:11, play video 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 0:39 How much rain will end the drought? 00:00:39, play video How much rain will end the drought? 0:24 Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol. 00:00:24, play video Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol 1:43 Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment. 00:01:43, play video Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment 0:44 Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup. 00:00:44, play video Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup 1:00 What is 'food noise'? 00:01:00, play video What is 'food noise'? Top stories Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands Published 3 hours ago Infantino denies claims Uefa paid off alleged 'lover' Published 11 hours ago The phone book that led us to Assad's spy chief in hiding Published 10 hours ago More to explore I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock Pokémon hobby takes brothers to world championships 'We had to flee with just my daughter's clothes and dolls' Obesity rates have doubled in England since 1993 - what's going on? The 101-year-old who created a dolls' house museum with her childhood toys How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC With great power comes great responsibility She's not a bad girl anymore, wink wink wink wink Can a test tell you what's living inside your gut? How much discipline is too much in school? Most read 1 I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock 2 Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands 3 He's been frozen on Everest for 30 years, now 'Green Boots' may finally be coming home 4 Hunter Biden tells BBC his pardon was 'not good' for America or his father's legacy 5 Woman attacked by bed bugs during Travelodge stay 6 Digital cameras and wired earphones are back - and 'a bit more real' 7 Spain imposes border controls against Italy as row over Ceuta migrant influx intensifies 8 Airport disruption a 'shambles' as flights restart 9 How a former GB Olympian curbed his porn problem - and the signs and steps to recovery 10 The phone book that led us to Assad's spy chief in hiding BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.