Germany investigates arms cache found in woods near Berlin Skip to content Skip to main menu Skip to more DW sites Latest videos Latest audio Regions Africa Asia Europe Latin America Middle East North America Germany Topics Climate Equality Health Human Rights Migration Technology Categories Business Science Environment Culture Sports In focus Ukraine Iran war Trump tariffs Latest audio Latest videos Live TV Advertisement Crime Germany Germany investigates arms cache found in woods near Berlin Karl Sexton with dpa, Reuters 08/22/2026 August 22, 2026 Handguns and ammunition were found in a forest near Berlin last year. Reports say German authorities suspect they were to be used for assassinations on behalf of Russian intelligence. https://p.dw.com/p/5Iq4U Without naming Russia, the German interior minister said authorities could not rule out the involvement of foreign powers Image: Bernd von Jutrczenka/dpa/picture alliance Advertisement Security authorities in Germany uncovered a cache of handguns in a forest near the capital, Berlin, last year, which they believe was intended to be used to carry out assassinations on behalf of Russia , according to reports on Friday. The daily Süddeutsche Zeitung and public broadcasters NDR and WDR reported that one suspect was arrested in Romania. Interior Minister Alexander Dobrindt said German authorities were in touch with their Romanian counterparts about the suspect's potential extradition. "This case demonstrates that we are ​operating under a high threat level," ​Dobrindt told reporters. What else did Dobrindt say about the weapons stash? Dobrindt confirmed the media reports that the suspect, who was detained in Romania last year, was being investigated on suspicion of espionage and planning a violent attack that endangers the state. But Dobrindt did not comment on the media reports' claims that the weapons were meant to be used for targeted killings on behalf of Russian intelligence. The minister only said that authorities could not rule out foreign powers being involved. The interior minister also did not disclose the suspect's identity but said the suspect was being held in connection with planned parcel bomb attacks in Romania. "We will then determine, in the course of the investigation, what measures ​can be ⁠taken against this person," Dobrindt added. Dobrindt said the suspect was a "low-level agent" and unaware of the line of command above him. The minister added that other operatives, including a Kazakh citizen, had been detained this year who were similarly uninformed of the network they were part of. Interior Minister Dobrindt refused to confirm reports that Russia was involved in the arms cache Image: Bernd von Jutrczenka/dpa/picture alliance What do we know about the weapons that were found? The stash found near Berlin contained two pistols, which had signs that they had been placed there on behalf of Russia's intelligence services, German news agency dpa reported. The stash also contained ammunition. Police disabled the two handguns but left them intact at the site before placing the location under surveillance. Dobrindt said officers watched the stash for months after discovering it, but no one was seen approaching it. It is presumed the alleged perpetrators were aware that police had uncovered the weapons and avoided the site. What do we know about Russia's alleged involvement? While Dobrindt refused to be drawn into whether Russia was directly involved, the minister said this month that Germany was a "daily target of hybrid warfare." "Espionage, sabotage, cyberattacks, or covert operations by foreign powers aimed at destabilizing Germany or inflicting direct harm are a constant reality," Dobrindt said at the time. Those remarks came in response to the discovery of an explosives-laden drone at Leipzig Airport. Some German lawmakers have pointed to Russia, and US media reports said American intelligence services suspected that Russia was behind the drone incident. Russia has rejected allegations that it was involved as a ⁠"hastily fabricated provocation" that is part of a "new wave of anti-Russian hysteria in Germany." The Russian embassy in Berlin added that the incident "only serves the interests of Kyiv and the militarist wing of the European political class." “Was it Russia?” Is the Leipzig drone attack part of a hybrid war? To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video Edited by: Sean Sinico If you rely on our team for trusted reporting, please take a moment to select us as your Preferred Source on Google so you'll always see our verified news first. Karl Sexton Writer and editor focused on international current affairs Send us your feedback Your feedback Advertisement Skip next section Explore more Explore more How Baltic states are responding to Russia's hybrid warfare How Baltic states are responding to Russia's hybrid warfare Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania are under mounting pressure from Russia's hybrid warfare tactics. How are people in the region coping? Conflicts 08/13/2026 August 13, 2026 09:12 min How vulnerable is Europe's economy to drone attacks? How vulnerable is Europe's economy to drone attacks? A drone incident at Germany's Leipzig airport has raised broader questions about how prepared European businesses are for threats to critical infrastructure and supply chains. Business 08/21/2026 August 21, 2026 06:36 min Skip next section More on Crime from Europe More on Crime from Europe Swiss police arrest man over deadly rave shooting One woman was killed and several others were injured in a shooting at a rave in the Swiss town of Aarau over the weekend Crime 08/31/2026 August 31, 2026 Manhunt underway after woman killed in Swiss rave shooting Police say they have launched a manhunt after a shooting at a rave in the northern Swiss town of Aarau. Crime 08/30/2026 August 30, 2026 Austria museum heist: Thieves snatch diamond necklace The stolen necklace, studded with 673 precious stones, belonged to Egypt's Queen Nazli. Crime 08/28/2026 August 28, 2026 Show more Skip next section Related topics Related topics Germany Footer About DW Who we are Press DW Global Media Forum DW offers Learn German DW Akademie Service Newsletters Reception FAQ Contact Topics from A to Z Headlines B2B Sales & Distribution Travel Advertising German News Service Follow us on Add DW as preferred source on Google © 2026 Deutsche Welle Privacy Policy Legal notice Digital accessibility Data privacy settings