Newsroom | Bureau of Reclamation Menu Water & Power Dams Powerplants Projects Agrimet/Hydromet Water Operations Resources & Research Programs Technical Service Center Research & Development Reclamation Manual Reclamation Information Sharing Environment (RISE) Environmental Resources/Reports Library About Us Mission Fact Sheet Commissioner Addresses/Contacts Organizational Chart Leadership Bios Employment Contact Recreation & Public Use Find Recreation Recreation.gov Public Use News & Multimedia News Releases News Stories Speeches Congressional Testimony Fact Sheets Photos Multimedia Social Media Search Search News & Multimedia News, Speeches, Fact Sheets and Multimedia from the Bureau of Reclamation NEWS & MULTIMEDIA News & Multimedia News Releases Filter By year Filter By region Filter By state Filter By topic Archived News Releases Archive by year Archive by region Archive by state Archive by topic News Stories Filter By region Filter By topic Archived News Stories Archive by year Archive by region Commissioner's Office Arkansas-Rio Grande-Texas Gulf California-Great Basin Columbia-Pacific Northwest Lower Colorado Basin Missouri Basin Upper Colorado Basin Archive by state Arizona California Colorado Hawaii Idaho Kansas Montana Nebraska Nevada New Mexico North Dakota Oklahoma Oregon South Dakota Texas Utah Washington Washington, D.C Wyoming Archive by topic Bureau of Reclamation California Water Colorado River Facilities Hydropower Prize Competitions Recreation Research Safety of Dams Supporting Tribal Nations WaterSMART Speeches Filter By year Archived Speeches Congressional Testimony Filter By year Archived Congressional Testimony Fact Sheet Leadership Bios Organization Chart Media Contacts Photos Multimedia Social Media Reclamation > News & Multimedia > news release > Reclamation announces 2022 operating conditions for Lake Powell and Lake Mead Reclamation announces 2022 operating conditions for Lake Powell and Lake Mead Historic Drought Impacting Entire Colorado River Basin Media Contact: Patti Aaron, 702-726-1921, paaron@usbr.gov Becki Bryant, 801-524-3659, ucbpao@usbr.gov For Release: Aug 16, 2021 Glen Canyon Dam in Arizona holding back Lake Powell. BOULDER CITY, Nev. – The Bureau of Reclamation today released the Colorado River Basin August 2021 24-Month Study. This month’s study projections are used to set annual operations for Lake Powell and Lake Mead in 2022. Releases from these massive reservoirs are determined by anticipated reservoir elevations. Most of the flow of the Colorado River originates in the upper portions of the Colorado River Basin in the Rocky Mountains. The Upper Basin experienced an exceptionally dry spring in 2021, with April to July runoff into Lake Powell totaling just 26% of average despite near-average snowfall last winter. The projected water year 2021 unregulated inflow into Lake Powell—the amount that would have flowed to Lake Mead without the benefit of storage behind Glen Canyon Dam—is approximately 32% of average. Total Colorado River system storage today is 40% of capacity, down from 49% at this time last year. Given ongoing historic drought and low runoff conditions in the Colorado River Basin, downstream releases from Glen Canyon Dam and Hoover Dam will be reduced in 2022 due to declining reservoir levels. In the Lower Basin the reductions represent the first “shortage” declaration—demonstrating the severity of the drought and low reservoir conditions. “Like much of the West, and across our connected basins, the Colorado River is facing unprecedented and accelerating challenges,” said Assistant Secretary for Water and Science Tanya Trujillo . “The only way to address these challenges and climate change is to utilize the best available science and to work cooperatively across the landscapes and communities that rely on the Colorado River. That is precisely the focus of the White House Interagency Drought Working Group — a multi-agency partnership created to collaborate with States, Tribes, farmers and communities impacted by drought and climate change to build and enhance regional resilience.” “ Today’s announcement of a Level 1 Shortage Condition at Lake Mead underscores the value of the collaborative agreements we have in place with the seven basin states, Tribes, water users and Mexico in the management of water in the Colorado River Basin,” said Reclamation Deputy Commissioner Camille Touton. “While these agreements and actions have reduced the risk, we have not eliminated the potential for continued decline of these critically important reservoirs. Reclamation is committed to working with all of our partners in the basin and with Mexico in continuing to implement these agreements and the ongoing work ahead.” Plans that have been developed over the past two decades lay out detailed operational rules for these critical Colorado River reservoirs: Based on projections in the study, Lake Powell will operate in the Mid-Elevation Release Tier in water year 2022 (October 1, 2021 through September 30, 2022), and Lake Mead will operate in its first-ever Level 1 Shortage Condition in calendar year 2022 (January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2022). Lake Powell Mid-Elevation Release Tier: The study projects Lake Powell’s January 1, 2022, elevation to be 3,535.40 feet – about 165 feet below full and about 45 feet above minimum power pool. Based on this projection, Lake Powell will operate in the Mid-Elevation Release Tier in water year 2022. Under this tier, Lake Powell will release 7.48 million acre-feet in water year 2022 without the potential for a mid-year adjustment in April 2022. Lake Mead Level 1 Shortage Condition: The study projects Lake Mead’s January 1, 2022, elevation to be 1,065.85 feet – about 9 feet below the Lower Basin shortage determination trigger of 1,075 feet and about 24 feet below the drought contingency plan trigger of 1,090 feet. Based on this projection, Lake Mead will operate in a Level 1 Shortage Condition for the first time ever. The required shortage reductions and water savings contributions under the 2007 Colorado River Interim Guidelines for Lower Basin Shortages and Coordinated Operations of Lake Powell and Lake Mead, 2019 Lower Basin Drought Contingency Plan and Minute 323 to the 1944 Water Treaty with Mexico are: - Arizona: 512,000 acre-feet, which is approximately 18% of the state’s annual apportionment - Nevada: 21,000 acre-feet, which is 7% of the state’s annual apportionment - Mexico: 80,000 acre-feet, which is approximately 5% of the country’s annual allotment In July 2021, drought operations to protect Lake Powell were implemented under the Upper Basin Drought Response Operations Agreement which project releasing up to an additional 181,000-acre feet of water from upstream initial units of the Colorado River Storage Project to Lake Powell. Relying on the best available scientific information to guide operations, investing in water conservation actions, maximizing the efficient use of Colorado River water and being prepared to adopt further actions to protect the elevations of Lake Powell and Lake Mead remains Reclamation’s priority and focus. # # # The Bureau of Reclamation is a federal agency under the U.S. Department of the Interior and is the nation's largest wholesale water supplier and second largest producer of hydroelectric power. Our facilities also provide substantial flood control, recreation opportunities, and environmental benefits. Visit our website at https://www.usbr.gov and follow us on Twitter @USBR ; Facebook @bureau.of.reclamation ; LinkedIn @Bureau of Reclamation ; Instagram @bureau_of_reclamation ; and YouTube @reclamation . Return to top More Information about the Bureau of Reclamation Stay in Touch Contact Us Site Index Accessibility Disclaimer DOI FOIA No Fear Act Notices Office of Civil Rights Privacy Policy Quality of Information USA.gov Vulnerability Disclosure Policy