China's exports growth beats estimates in July, as AI-driven shipments surge Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu China Economy China's exports growth beats estimates in July, as AI-driven shipments surge Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 10:47 PM EDT Updated 4 Hours Ago Anniek Bao @in/anniek-bao-460a48107/ @anniekbyx WATCH LIVE Key Points Exports grew 23.9% in U.S. dollar terms in July from a year earlier, topping a forecast for a 22.2% growth. Imports rose 27.5% last month, just shy of Reuters estimates of 27.9%, slowing from June. The trade surplus came in at $112.5 billion, exceeding expectations while narrowing from the monthly figure in June. SHENZHEN, CHINA - MAY 1: The Chinese national flag is seen in front of stacked shipping containers bearing MSC (Mediterranean Shipping Company), Maersk, and Hamburg Süd branding at Yantian Port on May 1, 2026, in Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, China. Cheng Xin | Getty Images News | Getty Images China's exports rose more than expected in July, though growth eased from June's blistering pace, with global demand for high-tech components helping absorb the country's goods. Exports grew 23.9% in U.S. dollar terms in July from a year earlier, official customs data showed Friday, topping Reuters-polled analysts' forecast for a 22.2% growth. That slowed from June's 27% surge, which was the fastest pace since October 2021 . Imports rose 27.5% last month, just shy of Reuters estimates of 27.9% in a Reuters poll, slowing from June's 36% jump — the quickest in five years. A worldwide build-out of AI infrastructure has helped support the world's second-largest economy through a year of geopolitical shocks, keeping growth on track even as domestic consumption has been subdued. China's integrated circuit exports by value nearly doubled this year as of the end of July, from the same period last year, according to official data compiled by Wind Information. In July alone, chip exports surged 117% from a year earlier. Exports of mechanical and electrical products accounted for more than 60% of China's total shipments in the first seven months this year, according to China's customs authority, driven by demand for electric vehicles, lithium battery and wind power generating equipment. Among the other fast-growing export categories were 3D printers and industrial robotics. Chinese exporters had also been racing goods onto U.S.-bound ships ahead of an anticipated increase in tariffs. Washington applied a new 12.5% levy on Chinese products in late July, replacing a temporary 10% rate that had lapsed. Shipments to the U.S. grew around 17% from a year ago, quickening from about 14% in June, according to Wind, while imports increased 15%. China's exports to the European Union continued to grow, expanding 16% year on year in July, while imports from the bloc shrank 1%. The trade surplus came in at $112.5 billion , exceeding analysts' estimates of about $107 billion, while narrowing from $125.6 billion in June , customs data showed. watch now VIDEO 4:43 04:43 U.S., China reach trade 'gentleman’s agreement' but AI tensions mount The China Connection China's export engine is likely to remain strong in the third quarter, said Zhiwei Zhang, president and chief economist at Pinpoint Asset Management. Beijing's massive trade surplus, which exceeded $1 trillion last year, has become a standing grievance for its trading partners, including the U.S. and the European Union, where officials have pressed China to rebalance its economy toward boosting consumption. "I expect intense negotiations between China and the major trading partners in the coming months on what can be done to make trade more balanced," said Zhang, ahead of the expected U.S.-China summit in September and the EU-China meeting on economic relations in October. Chinese authorities reaffirmed support for the slowing economy during a policy-setting meeting in late July, including accelerated fiscal rollout and timely monetary adjustment, while stopping short of announcing concrete steps to boost household spending. China's economy in the second quarter expanded at its weakest pace since the fourth quarter of 2022, with gross domestic product growth coming in at 4.3% in the April to June period. Retail sales eked out 1% growth in June, a thin rebound from May's 0.6% contraction. Consumer inflation cooled to 1% in June from 1.2% in May, while factory-gate prices rose 4.1%, the strongest growth since July 2022. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by