From flip flops to fisherman's sandals: How to look after your feet this summer - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Health From flip flops to fisherman's sandals: How to look after your feet this summer Image source, Getty Images By Philippa Roxby Health reporter Published 5 August 2026 Flip-flops have always been a popular solution to sweaty, uncomfortable feet in scorching weather - and now they've had a revamp. The most stylish way to wear them this summer is with a kitten heel, according to fashion expert and trend forecaster Angela Baidoo. "It's not a high heel and it's really kind of easy to just slip in and slip out of," she says. However, heel or not, the flip-flop has earned itself a bad rap for lack of support and damaging our feet. Is that fair? Why your summer shoe could be bad for you "In terms of arch support and joint support, it's not the best style, but people are investing a bit more, getting their flip-flops customised, because it's something that is just so easy to wear," Baidoo says. Podiatrist Dr Helen Branthwaite, who is also chief clinical adviser at the Royal College of Podiatry, says it's "not accurate" to say flip-flops are bad. The problem comes if you go straight from wearing a very structured shoe to wearing flip-flops a lot, she explains. It means your foot is under more strain than normal, which makes you more prone to injury. "The foot does start to change shape and tends to splay a little bit over time," says Branthwaite. "A good analogy is if you were to wear a corset all the time and then took the corset off, everything would sort of all hang out, so to speak." So what are the stylish and comfortable alternatives? How to find healthy sandals Baidoo suggests a more supportive flip-flop, such as a FitFlop, which is sturdier and contoured - a world away from the flat and thin flip-flops that have been cut from a big sheet of foam. Sliders are out and Crocs are in for Gen Z, she says. They might be "anti-fashion shoes" but they're "really comfy" and designed "orthopaedically" with footbed sandals like Birkenstocks offering the same advantages. The wooden clog is also making a comeback. It's worn by doctors and chefs on their feet all day. Scholl slider mules are the original orthopaedic shoe, Baidoo says - and admits she once had a pair in pink suede. Wedges are another option in the heat. "When I speak to some of my friends and some of my clients who work in the plus-size category, the wedge actually provides a form of comfortable footwear. And it provides a nice kind of silhouette for the ankle. You've got the support all the way through the shoe." Image source, Getty Images You could always opt for the fisherman-style sandal, which looks like something a history teacher might have worn in the 1970s. With socks. "Men can wear it as an alternative to a loafer. It's not as casual as a flip-flop, which might not be suitable for certain environments. It's a really cool kind of style to adopt for women too," Baidoo says. So what about the trend for wearing minimalist barefoot shoes? It's all about easing into them, says Branthwaite. In other words, don't buy a pair and then decide to go on a 5-mile hike. Expert tips for happy feet Podiatrist Dr Helen Branthwaite's top tips for looking after your feet: Pay close attention to the sole of the shoe and what it's made from, because that will influence how your foot moves and how you walk If you can bend your flip-flops in two, then ask yourself if you're strong enough to take on the extra load your normal shoe would support Don't forget to check the condition of your feet - the skin can dry out quickly in open footwear like flip-flops. You might not notice until your heel gets firmer and your toenails start to look fragile Lather your feet in emollient, a moisturising water retention cream containing urea to hydrate the skin, every day Your feet change constantly throughout your life, so get them measured regularly. Just because you start out being a size 6, doesn't mean you'll remain a size 6. Get our flagship newsletter with all the headlines you need to start the day. Sign up here. Related topics Health Fashion The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:38 Wildfire raging in Canada's British Columbia. 00:00:38, play video Wildfire raging in Canada's British Columbia 0:40 Maradona's 'Hand of God' football to go under the hammer. 00:00:40, play video Maradona's 'Hand of God' football to go under the hammer 3:23 What happened to the internet? 00:03:23, play video What happened to the internet? 1:02 Child among three killed in Russian missile attacks near Kyiv. 00:01:02, play video Child among three killed in Russian missile attacks near Kyiv 0:28 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update. 00:00:28, play video 'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update 0:59 Melvin Odoom hears his student radio MiniDisc. 00:00:59, play video Melvin Odoom hears his student radio MiniDisc 0:54 If the Inbetweeners were Teletubbies! 00:00:54, play video If the Inbetweeners were Teletubbies! 0:34 Timelapse shows mass balloon ascent in Bristol. 00:00:34, play video Timelapse shows mass balloon ascent in Bristol 1:17 The tech that could map every tree on earth. 00:01:17, play video The tech that could map every tree on earth 1:20 Jackie Kennedy's White House renovation and televised tour. 00:01:20, play video Jackie Kennedy's White House renovation and televised tour 0:59 Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 00:00:59, play video Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 1:07 Riding England's longest zip wire. 00:01:07, play video Riding England's longest zip wire 0:31 The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 00:00:31, play video The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 1:21 How many different cubes can you make? 00:01:21, play video How many different cubes can you make? 2:01 Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape. 00:02:01, play video Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape 1:02 Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter. 00:01:02, play video Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter 1:17 What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:17, play video What we know about the Thailand school shooting 0:48 Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 00:00:48, play video Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 0:53 Are you hung up on hangers? 00:00:53, play video Are you hung up on hangers? 0:52 Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 00:00:52, play video Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" Top stories Suspected crime boss Daniel Kinahan to be returned to Ireland in high-security operation Published 18 minutes ago Andy Burnham to embark on cost of living tour through the UK Published 9 hours ago Killed a month after his wedding - why PC Andrew Harper's death touched so many Published 9 hours ago More to explore I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock Pokémon hobby takes brothers to world championships 'We had to flee with just my daughter's clothes and dolls' Obesity rates have doubled in England since 1993 - what's going on? The 101-year-old who created a dolls' house museum with her childhood toys Artist's 'anger and frustration' with internet copycats The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC With great power comes great responsibility She's not a bad girl anymore, wink wink wink wink Can a test tell you what's living inside your gut? How much discipline is too much in school? Most read 1 Zendaya saw me on the red carpet and her jaw dropped - I'm still in shock 2 Perez Hilton faces long recovery after reports he self-harmed during livestream 3 Andy Burnham to embark on cost of living tour through the UK 4 Kellie Bright to leave EastEnders after 13 years 5 How weight-loss medication is changing relationships with alcohol 6 'Top universities cut entry grades' and 'Uefa set for Infantino inquiry' 7 Australia is the planet's extinction hotspot, but one animal offers a glimmer of hope 8 Killed a month after his wedding - why PC Andrew Harper's death touched so many 9 Israel accused of weaponising archaeology at ancient West Bank sites 10 'Minion Man' paints over estate's obscene graffiti BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.