Argos is getting a makeover - but can it attract new shoppers? - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Business New Tech Economy Artificial Intelligence Technology of Business Africa Business Paths to Success Argos is getting a makeover - but can it attract new shoppers? By Daniel Thomas BBC News Published 7 August 2026, 00:03 BST Do you still shop at Argos? And if so, what do you think of it? The chain has been a fixture of the British High Street for more than 50 years and is still used by around half of all UK households. But it has struggled to thrive in recent years amid fierce competition from online giants like Amazon, with sales stagnating. Its owner Sainsbury's recently announced it was selling the chain for a lot less than it paid for it just 10 years ago. But the new owners say they see "real opportunities" for growth, including opening new standalone shops. Can they succeed where Sainsbury's did not? Image caption, Enrico has fond memories of using Argos's now-discontinued print catalogue When the BBC spoke to shoppers in central London this week, the retailer seemed to divide opinion. Some, like Enrico, 28, said they loved the convenience of same-day collection, and felt nostalgic towards a brand which unlocked fond childhood memories. "It was a great way of doing your Christmas shopping," he told the BBC. "We'd go into our local Argos and we'd get the massive print catalogue." Argos's encyclopedia-like catalogue was once dubbed "the laminated book of dreams", but the company stopped printing it in 2021 . At one point it was Europe's most widely printed publication. Image source, Bloomberg/Getty Images Image caption, Many Britons have fond memories of the Argos catalogue, which the company stopped making in 2021 Image source, Bloomberg/Getty Images For others, though, Argos has not moved with the times and is at odds with the seemingly endless online choice. "I feel Amazon is a lot easier because it gets delivered straight to your door with Prime," said Emily, 22, adding that she only used Argos to buy appliances, not "day to day" items. Jack Cunningham, 26, from Kent often uses Argos to pick up things when he's at work in London. The scientist said the big draw was convenience: "If I need something in the moment and can't wait for delivery, normally I'll get it in Argos. "You can order something really cheap on Amazon, and it might come and be the wrong size, " he added. For years, commentators have asked whether Argos could build a business to take on Amazon, the biggest online seller in the UK. But while Argos has invested a lot in digital, it never quite happened. It made £4.1bn of sales last year, compared with £32bn for Amazon in the UK. 'Remind people it exists' Image source, Mike Kemp/In Pictures via Getty Images Image caption, Argos has around 200 standalone shops, down from 845 in 2016 Argos does, however, offer something its online rivals don't - a large network of stores, concessions in Sainsbury's shops, and collection points that mean customers can click and collect on the same day, free of charge. Retail analyst Catherine Shuttleworth thinks Argos could capitalise on this, along with its reputation as a trusted British brand. However, she thinks it needs to improve its app so it can compete with online players like Amazon, Shein and Temu. "I think if you asked people to name five High Street retailers, they wouldn't name Argos," she added. "It's almost about reminding people it exists." Figure caption, What do people want from Argos? Argos hasn't been front of mind for Georgia, 27, for ages. She thinks it is outdated and not for her. "It's very old school isn't it? I'm more of an Amazon shopper." Argos could also do better on customer service, thinks Hugh Radojev, editor of Retail Week. "It's not an exciting place to shop, or what it used to be for kids around Christmas. Under a new ownership you'd hope they could get it back into the zeitgeist." Image caption, Nicole wants Argos to open more standalone shops Since 2012, Argos has gone from having 845 standalone shops to around 200 - although it also has opened about 450 shop-within-shops in Sainsbury's stores. This was seen as a smart move, allowing Argos to tap into Sainsbury's large customer base. Argos will keep all of those concessions after the takeover, and customers will continue to get Nectar loyalty card points for all their purchases. But Nicole, 40, an Argos fan from South London, says she wants the chain to expand further. "It would be nice if they could go in other supermarkets like Tesco," she added. 'Argos has a history of being different' Argos's new owners have ruled out deals with rival supermarkets, but they do plan to forge other "partnerships" and open new standalone stores. The group, called Swift Partners, includes several seasoned retail veterans, one of them a former boss of Co-operative Group. Retail analyst Richard Hyman thinks this ownership will be a better fit than Sainsbury's, which was focused on selling food. But he is sceptical about how much Argos can grow in such a "tough retail market". Shuttleworth is more optimistic, saying with a "ruthless focus" Argos can thrive and even put Amazon under pressure. "Argos completely revolutionised the way we shop when they came out and they have a history of being different," she said. "If I was marketing director I would be thinking about how to bottle that for 2027." Get our flagship newsletter with all the headlines you need to start the day. Sign up here. Get in touch How will you be affected by the issues in this story? Share your experiences Contact form Contact form Related topics Argos Sainsbury's Shopping Supermarkets Retailing The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:02 Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter. 00:01:02, play video Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter 1:17 What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:17, play video What we know about the Thailand school shooting 0:48 Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 00:00:48, play video Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 0:52 Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 00:00:52, play video Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 0:31 The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 00:00:31, play video The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 0:43 Moment earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan. 00:00:43, play video Moment earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan 0:33 Moment raiders drive car into service station. 00:00:33, play video Moment raiders drive car into service station 1:11 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 00:01:11, play video 'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 0:39 How much rain will end the drought? 00:00:39, play video How much rain will end the drought? 0:24 Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol. 00:00:24, play video Views from a hot air balloon flying over Bristol 1:43 Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment. 00:01:43, play video Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment 0:44 Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup. 00:00:44, play video Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup 1:00 What is 'food noise'? 00:01:00, play video What is 'food noise'? 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:00 What do people want from Argos? 00:01:00, play video What do people want from Argos? 0:58 Meet Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:19 New hope for Afghan women's football team. 00:01:19, play video New hope for Afghan women's football team 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college Top stories Serial sex offender guilty of double murder and rape Published 17 minutes ago How police let a registered sex offender murder and attack women Published 1 hour ago Cambridge to review process for hiring senior academics after Jason Arday resignation Published 1 hour ago More to explore Argos is getting a makeover - but can it attract new shoppers? Lauryn Hill and Wyclef ‘in an amazing place’ as fans hope for new Fugees album after 30 years How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man ‘We have nowhere to return to’: How Russia is seizing homes in occupied Ukraine First OpenAI, now Meta - why do AI hacks keep happening? The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC With great power comes great responsibility She's not a bad girl anymore, wink wink wink wink Can a test tell you what's living inside your gut? How much discipline is too much in school? Most read 1 How police let a registered sex offender murder and attack women 2 Serial sex offender guilty of double murder and rape 3 Girl, 11, found dead after search at Midlothian beauty spot 4 Madonna and Blur producer William Orbit dies aged 69 5 Cambridge to review process for hiring senior academics after Jason Arday resignation 6 England footballer Toney charged with assault in Soho 7 Why there is a row about standing up while drinking in central London 8 How 90-second power outage sparked chaos for rail commuters 9 Streeting 'sickened' by sex abuse claims at Army college 10 Campaigners call for Jared Leto's concerts to be cancelled after criminal sexual conduct claims BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.