Oil prices fall on hopes Strait of Hormuz could reopen - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat World Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East Oil prices fall on hopes Strait of Hormuz could reopen Image source, Getty Images By Michael Race Business reporter , Reporting from New York Published 4 August 2026, 15:58 BST Updated 2 hours ago Oil prices fell to a three-week low on Tuesday as senior US officials raised hopes of a deal with Iran to reopen the key Strait of Hormuz waterway. US Secretary of State Marco Rubio and Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent both announced talks had progressed to allow shipments to potentially resume as soon as this week. The cost of a barrel of Brent crude, the global benchmark for oil prices, fell by almost 5% to under $80 (£60) on the news of supply disruptions potentially being eased. But the failure of previous negotiations in recent months to de-escalate the conflict between the US and Iran has led to a volatile oil market, with drivers ultimately being hit by higher fuel prices at the pumps. On Tuesday, along with the drop in Brent crude, US West Texas Intermediate prices were down more than 5%, to $76 a barrel. Both contracts dropped to their lowest levels since 13 July. Rubio said there had been progress made in discussions on getting more ships through the strait with Iran and Oman. "There's been progress made in those talks, but not finality yet. We're hoping that will happen very shortly," he told reporters at the State Department. Bessent said a deal to reopen the Strait of Hormuz could be agreed as soon as Tuesday or Wednesday. There was a "chance we may have a deal today or tomorrow to open the strait and move towards a more normalized position in this conflict," he told CNBC. "It would be freedom of movement," he added, when asked whether Iran would be allowed to charge for ships passing through. While senior figures in the US government have announced talks have been progressing, no details of what a potential deal may look like have been released. Iran has said it is not negotiating with the US - and has no plans to do so - and is instead talking to Oman. A spokesman for Iran's foreign ministry said that talks with Oman, a mediator in negotiations, on a new mechanism for vessels going through the Strait, had been positive. Qatar, which is a key mediator between Washington and Tehran, said it was continuing efforts with other mediators to try to achieve a diplomatic resolution to the war, but admitted no direct talks were currently planned. The Strait of Hormuz has been a central point in negotiations between the US and Iran. Before the conflict began in late February, the waterway handled about one-fifth of global daily oil and liquefied natural gas supplies. Iran has halted most traffic through the Strait since the conflict began, while the US has also imposed a naval blockade of Iranian ports in the region. Another blockade is in place on Saudi Arabia's ports in the Red Sea, imposed by Yemen's Iran-backed Houthis since 20 July. The route had become a crucial alternative since Iran blocked the strait, but it has become increasingly dangerous, with a spate of attacks on vessels reported in the past week. On Tuesday, a projectile sank an Indian-flagged vessel near Yemeni waters, the India's shipping minister said, with all 14 on board rescued. Analysts believe the threat to ships carrying oil in the Middle East is at its worst since the Iran war started . "Investors are acutely aware of how many times we've already been at this point in the war and how fragile the process of securing lasting agreements can be," said Danni Hewson, head of financial analysis at AJ Bell. The disruption has sent prices at the pumps up across the world. In the UK petrol prices are now at levels seen at the start of the conflict, with the average cost of a litre of petrol hitting £1.60, according to the RAC motoring group. In the US, gasoline prices are on average above $4 a gallon, according to the AAA. Diesel is almost $5.40 a gallon. Prices have surged to above $120 when the conflict has escalated and plunged in response to previous talks suggesting a breakthrough. The elevated prices have led to major oil companies, such as BP, Shell, Chevron and Exxon Mobil, to report bumper profits. However, Hewson added that despite the huge revenues, oil companies were "at the mercy" of US President Donald Trump's "machinations". On Monday, Trump warned Iran faced its "last chance" to agree a deal to allow commercial shipping to resume in the Strait. He said he had called off "massive" strikes on the country for talks to resume. US stock markets were trading higher on Tuesday following news of the negotiations lowering oil prices and also in response to corporate results related to Artificial Intelligence. Investors have experienced jitters on Wall Street as results from Big Tech firms indicate spending on the technology is set to continue to soar. Related topics Fuel Oil Iran war International Business United States Iran More on this story Threat to oil tankers in Middle East worst since start of Iran war, analysts say Published 1 day ago Why the Strait of Hormuz matters so much in the Iran war Published 14 July The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:01 Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack. 00:01:01, play video Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack 0:57 Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites. 00:00:57, play video Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport 1:01 What are the 'luteal uglies'? 00:01:01, play video What are the 'luteal uglies'? 0:59 Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 00:00:59, play video Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 0:40 US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak. 00:00:40, play video US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak 0:35 PC Harper's mother on early release for killers. 00:00:35, play video PC Harper's mother on early release for killers 0:41 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti. 00:00:41, play video 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti 0:54 Why Scotland's exam results come first. 00:00:54, play video Why Scotland's exam results come first 1:06 Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 00:01:06, play video Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 0:39 Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests. 00:00:39, play video Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests 1:09 Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos. 00:01:09, play video Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos 0:25 Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas. 00:00:25, play video Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas 0:45 Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer. 00:00:45, play video Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer 0:55 Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight. 00:00:55, play video Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight 0:27 Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend. 00:00:27, play video Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend 0:59 How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president. 00:00:59, play video How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president 1:57 Are some schools taking discipline too far? 00:01:57, play video Are some schools taking discipline too far? Top stories Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack Published 4 hours ago More than 170 migrants rescued after boat catches fire in Channel Published 2 hours ago Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece Published 2 hours ago More to explore Which area has the best grades? Key takeaways from Scotland's exam results How to avoid the worst of the Italian heat I left my wife and twins behind - why this Nigerian man fled South Africa Breast cancer checks missing most women under 50 who are at risk, says study There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger After three traumatic years at uni, I fear I won't get my dream nursing job Woman has pioneering womb surgery to fix 'miracle' baby with intestines outside its body Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC 'I said maybeeee...' Follow police investigations from the 999 call to conviction The return of the thrilling, award-winning drama about the CIA Tommy and John Fury debate what makes a home Most read 1 Princess Eugenie gives birth to baby girl in Portugal 2 Athletes go 'missing' after Commonwealth Games ends 3 Major search under way for boy, 13, missing at sea 4 Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack 5 Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece 6 Bono, Eddie Vedder and Hozier among mourners at Glen Hansard's funeral 7 Man 'driven insane' by noise admits killing fish 8 Care company fined for running illegal children's homes in legal first 9 Ed Sheeran fined for failing to insure Aston Martin 10 Oil prices fall on hopes Strait of Hormuz could reopen BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.