DR Congo Ebola health workers protest unpaid wages as deaths surpass 1,800 | Ebola News | Al Jazeera Skip links Skip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up News | Ebola DR Congo Ebola health workers protest unpaid wages as deaths surpass 1,800 Aid workers say the virus is spreading at an ‘alarming and unprecedented rate’, as new cases are recorded in remote areas of the war-torn African country. Listen (3 mins) Save Click here to share on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google Health workers protest over unpaid wages at the provincial governor's office in Ituri, DR Congo [Constant Same Bagalwa/AP] By Al Jazeera Staff and AP Published On 6 Aug 2026 6 Aug 2026 Dozens of Congolese health workers at the epicentre of an Ebola outbreak have gone on strike to demand payment of their wages, as aid workers warn the disease is still spreading at an alarming rate. Health workers in Bunia, the capital of Ituri province – which accounts for nearly 90 percent of Ebola cases in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) – are the latest group to walk off their jobs since protests over pay began weeks ago in the country. Recommended Stories list of 3 items list 1 of 3 Uganda declares end to Ebola outbreak list 2 of 3 DR Congo’s Ebola death toll passes 1,500 as it struggles to halt spread list 3 of 3 DR Congo Ebola epidemic becomes world’s second largest outbreak end of list Protesting at the governor’s office in the city on Thursday, they said they have not received wages and bonuses since the outbreak was declared in mid-May. “With this way of managing things, Ebola will not end in this province,” Edouige Makosi, one of the protesters, told The Associated Press news agency. “We ask the authorities to get involved at all levels so that a solution is found quickly.” Officials have in the past blamed logistical issues for the payment delays. Congolese authorities did not immediately comment on the claims. Poor welfare for front-line workers has been a key source of concern in the outbreak spreading in one of DRC’s most remote and vulnerable areas, ravaged by conflict between armed groups. Several health workers and facilities have been attacked by rebels and angry crowds. The walkouts took place as confirmed cases in the outbreak reached 3,973, including 1,801 deaths, according to the latest government data published on Thursday. It is the second-largest Ebola outbreak on record, behind the 2014-2016 West Africa outbreak that saw more than 28,000 cases, including an excess of 11,000 deaths. Advertisement Government data shows 674 patients are currently in isolation, most of them in Ituri. At least 75 percent of contacts were being traced after their exposure to patients, the data showed. Officials expressed concern that 60-70 percent of the new cases were coming from outside those contacts and were mostly from remote localities where rebel conflict and mining-related movements limit access. World Health Organization (WHO) Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus urged authorities to prioritise care and support for the responders during a visit to the DRC on Wednesday. The medical charity Doctors Without Borders, known by its French initials MSF, said this week that the outbreak is still “spreading at an alarming and unprecedented rate” and that the response, which has been expanding with more steps, “is still not reaching communities quickly enough to break transmission chains”. “Immediate action is needed,” Philippa Boulle, deputy medical director for MSF, said in a statement on Wednesday. “Every day lost allows the virus to stay one step ahead and more lives to be needlessly lost.” Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network