Family of New Jersey man who died in ICE custody accuses agency of ‘medical neglect’ IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Immigration Family of New Jersey man who died in ICE custody accuses agency of ‘medical neglect’ ICE stated Edwin Lopez-Cornejo suffered a “medical emergency” while the family says he wasn’t properly treated to keep his medical conditions under control and called for an investigation. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Activists gather outside Delaney Hall Detention Facility for a vigil on Monday after a detainee, Edwin Lopez-Cornejo, 41, died in ICE custody in Newark, N.J. Selcuk Acar / Anadolu via Getty Images Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 4, 2026, 3:23 PM EDT By Nicole Acevedo The family of a 41-year-old Salvadoran man who died Saturday at an immigration detention center in New Jersey is claiming that medical negligence is to blame for his death. “It isn’t fair that he died this way,” Maria Cornejo, the mother of Edwin Lopez-Cornejo, said at a news conference held Tuesday by family members. Lopez-Cornejo, who was the father of a 12-year-old U.S.-citizen daughter, suffered from several underlying health conditions, including epilepsy, high blood pressure and diabetes, according to his family. He was dependent on several medications to keep his conditions under control, the family said. Citing conversations they had with Lopez-Cornejo from detention before he died, the family said that staff at Delaney Hall, the immigration detention center in Newark where Lopez-Cornejo was being held, failed to adequately administer his medications and his condition. “He was treated horribly,” Ashley Lopez, Lopez-Cornejo’s daughter, said amid tears during the news conference. “I’m going to grow up without a father — we had so many plans.” A spokesperson for the Department of Homeland Security and another for GEO Group, which operates Delaney Hall, referred NBC News to ICE’s previous statement when asked Tuesday about the allegations made by Lopez-Cornejo’s family about medical negligence. “While in custody, Lopez-Cornejo received proper medical care and was seen by medical professionals,” the statement reads. ICE officers arrested Lopez-Cornejo on June 18 in Plainfield, New Jersey, while he was on his way to work. Pro-immigrant activists gather outside Delaney Hall Detention Facility in Newark, N.J., on Monday following the death of Edwin Lopez-Cornejo. Selcuk Acar / Anadolu via Getty Images ICE notified the public of Lopez-Cornejo’s death on Monday, as required per the agency’s policy. In its statement , ICE said Lopez-Cornejo suffered “a medical emergency while in ICE custody.” ICE said personnel from GEO Group “responded immediately and called 911 for emergency medical services.” Lopez-Cornejo was pronounced deceased on Saturday by medical personnel at University Hospital in Newark. Maria Cornejo said she last spoke with Lopez-Cornejo on Friday when he complained to her about feeling unwell, saying that part of his face and his right hand had gone numb. She said Lopez-Cornejo told her he had seen a doctor at the facility earlier that day, but was going to have some additional tests done later at an unknown time. She then received a call from the hospital Saturday notifying her of her son’s death. She opened up about that moment in a Facebook livestream Monday night with the advocacy group Movimiento Cosecha. She was told that her son “arrived lifeless” at the hospital. “His heart had already stopped,” Cornejo said in Spanish, adding she later went to the hospital to identify his body. In the same livestream, Danilo Lopez, Lopez-Cornejo’s brother, deemed his immigration detention as “unnecessary” considering his serious underlying medical conditions. Flowers and candles laid at a memorial site for Edwin Lopez-Cornejo during a vigil at Delaney Hall Detention Facility in Newark, N.J., on Monday. Selcuk Acar / Anadolu via Getty Images ICE reported 33 detainee deaths in 2025, the highest total in more than two decades, according to t he National Immigration Project, a legal nonprofit. Lopez-Cornejo had been living in the U.S. for nearly two decades. His brother said Lopez-Cornejo had a valid work permit. According to ICE, Lopez-Cornejo was not authorized to be in the country after he “ illegally re-entered the U.S. ” at an unknown time following his removal to El Salvador on Oct. 19, 2006. After his ICE arrest last month, Lopez-Cornejo was taken to Delaney Hall “pending removal from the United States pursuant to a reinstatement of his prior removal order.” Lopez-Cornejo’s family ended the news conference asking for transparency, accountability and an independent investigation into the conditions and events around Lopez-Cornejo’s death. Share Add NBC News to Google Nicole Acevedo Nicole Acevedo is a news reporter for NBC News. About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC