David Sullivan advised to stay away from West Ham home matches - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat UK England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Isle of Man Guernsey Jersey Local News West Ham co-owner David Sullivan advised to stay away from home matches Image source, PA By Billy Kenber , Hannah Price and Sophie Smith , BBC Panorama Published 3 August 2026 West Ham co-owner David Sullivan has been advised to stay away from the club's home matches in the wake of a BBC Panorama and Times investigation into allegations of sexual misconduct. A spokesperson for London Stadium, where West Ham play their home games, told BBC News it had "recommended" to West Ham that Sullivan does not attend matches because of concerns about fan unrest. London Stadium has asked for advance notice of any planned visits by the billionaire businessman in order to implement additional safety and operational measures. However, it is understood that the club expects Sullivan to defy the request not to attend home matches and has told London Stadium this. Predator: The Billionaire Football Boss An investigation into the behaviour of David Sullivan Watch on iPlayer The recommendation from London Stadium comes after a joint investigation by BBC Panorama and The Times revealed that seven women have accused Sullivan of sexually exploitative and predatory behaviour . He has categorically denied the allegations. He stood down as joint chairman of the club shortly before the investigation was broadcast, saying he wanted to focus on fighting what he called "factually incorrect and entirely false, decades-old allegations concerning my personal life". He remains the club's largest shareholder. The investigation also revealed that Sullivan has been banned from contact with West Ham's women's and youth teams for three years due to safeguarding concerns. London Stadium were unaware of the restrictions until the BBC's report. Sullivan was banned after a historic allegation about his conduct was raised with the Football Association in 2023. He has previously said the allegation was false and that because he had never met any academy or women's team players "1-2-1" during his 16 years at the club, he accepted what he saw as a "meaningless restriction…for a quiet life". West Ham were relegated from the Premier League in May and are due to play their first home game of the new season, a Carabao Cup match against Portsmouth, on Saturday. Sullivan was a regular attendee at the London Stadium last season, where he was photographed watching games from the directors' box. A spokesperson for London Stadium, the operator of the publicly owned venue, said that "following media reports at the end of the season regarding a safeguarding matter being managed by the club, London Stadium sought further information to ensure it could fulfil its own safeguarding responsibilities". It said that West Ham had told it that the "matter was investigated and that the club does not consider there to be an ongoing safeguarding risk associated with Mr Sullivan attending the stadium". However it said that, despite this, it had recommended the businessman stay away from games because of the "potential for demonstrations and anti-social behaviour by some spectators". Sullivan has previously faced criticism from fans over his running of the club, with thousands joining a protest in September last year calling for his departure. West Ham declined to comment. It is understood that the club intends to work with the stadium operators to facilitate Sullivan's attendance at games. Sullivan has not responded to a request for comment. Meanwhile, presenter Tony Livesey left BBC Radio 5 Live on Monday after 16 years at the station, the corporation announced . Livesey stepped back from his weekday late night talk show in June, following allegations made against Sullivan. He had previously worked as editor-in-chief of Sullivan's Daily and Sunday Sport publications. One alleged victim said that Livesey had arranged a meeting between her and Sullivan in 1999. Livesey said he had "no recollection" of introducing the young woman to Sullivan and that it was "not part" of his job to do so. He added that he had "great sympathy for a woman who may have become a victim", but rejected any suggestion that he had played "any role whatsoever in that scenario" and said he found the allegation "abhorrent". More on this story Who is David Sullivan - football boss, 'king of porn' and alleged sexual predator? Published 8 June Tony Livesey steps back from 5 Live after allegations against David Sullivan Published 9 June The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 0:34 Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents. 00:00:34, play video Norway's new King pays emotional tribute to parents 1:05 What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident. 00:01:05, play video What we know about Big Church Festival sign incident 0:29 How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 00:00:29, play video How much light are we currently losing in the UK? 1:27 Are older and younger generations in conflict? 00:01:27, play video Are older and younger generations in conflict? 1:18 Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 00:01:18, play video Our dog's death left 'a big empty hole in our lives' 0:48 Model's photos used to catfish women. 00:00:48, play video Model's photos used to catfish women 1:29 The inventor who refused to take no for an answer. 00:01:29, play video The inventor who refused to take no for an answer 1:07 How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 00:01:07, play video How will Norway's King Harald be remembered? 1:01 E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths. 00:01:01, play video E-bike and e-scooter fires cause 18 deaths 1:07 NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England. 00:01:07, play video NHS warns of chaos in ADHD and autism care in England 0:52 Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion. 00:00:52, play video Ronnie O'Sullivan mural splits opinion 0:59 Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation. 00:00:59, play video Late Norwegian King remembered as a 'grandfather' to the nation 0:35 Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend. 00:00:35, play video Rain and thunder forecast for Bank Holiday weekend 1:25 Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings. 00:01:25, play video Serial rapist police officer passed vetting despite warnings 0:55 Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 00:00:55, play video Lake Ontario to Lake America: Can Trump rename it? 0:48 Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances. 00:00:48, play video Kane discusses his Ballon d'Or chances 1:16 GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview. 00:01:16, play video GTA 6: What we still don't know after the preview 1:07 What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 00:01:07, play video What are the symptoms of Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder? 0:58 '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 00:00:58, play video '£790 for jeans': How much is too much? 0:29 Where does salmonella get its name? 00:00:29, play video Where does salmonella get its name? Top stories Live . Rescue efforts enter fifth day on Nepal-Tibet border with more than 2,400 missing after flash flood 1277 viewing 1.3k viewing At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot Published 3 hours ago Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor Published 7 hours ago More to explore Dolly Parton's dad couldn't read - it inspired her to send books to millions of children Sweetcorn ice creams and pastries: The latest 'swavoury' trend taking over your feed How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works We helped create UK emergency alert system - but question how government is using it Hypermobility - the little-known 'bendy disease' that causes pain and fatigue Strong winds and thunderstorms kick off the bank holiday weekend 'I thought diet clubs weren't for men' Embroidery on display as town celebrates conqueror Royal Watch: Get the latest royal stories and analysis with Sean Coughlan’s weekly newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC Low-key noughties sitcom starring Robert Webb and Paula Wilcox Keith Richards recalls how he wrote the iconic 'Satisfaction' An unlikely gang set out to catch a killer who shattered rural peace Did Emily ruin Paris? Most read 1 Rescue to continue overnight for 'in distress' vessel carrying five in the Channel 2 Sarah Ferguson expected back in the UK 'shortly', source says 3 Cleverly quits shadow cabinet to run for London mayor 4 I've been to Gamescom six times - here's what excited me this year 5 'Healey eyes banks and oil tax' and 'X Factor comeback' 6 Norway's new king remembers 'my dear father' in first speech 7 How one of the 'most powerful hacks' to control stress actually works 8 They fell in love - then had to check they weren't brother and sister 9 Man dies after train hits van on crossing 10 At least 37 dead and hundreds evacuated after strike on Kyiv weapons depot BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Careers BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.