Bank of America CEO: GLP-1 drugs for employees cost $250M a year Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Finance Bank of America spends $250 million a year on GLP-1 drugs for its employees, CEO says Published Wed, Aug 5 2026 10:34 AM EDT Updated Wed, Aug 5 2026 12:18 PM EDT Hugh Son @hugh_son Annika Kim Constantino @annikakimc WATCH LIVE Key Points Bank of America CEO Brian Moynihan said the company is spending more than $250 million annually to provide GLP-1 weight loss medications to its workforce. Moynihan told CNBC the expense has surged from zero about five years ago, but called it a "good investment." Moynihan cited potential near- and long-term health benefits for employees, such as reduced incidents of heart issues, as key drivers for absorbing the costs. In this article BAC NVO Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Brian Moynihan, CEO of Bank of America, speaking to CNBC from Aspen, Colorado, Aug. 5, 2026. CNBC Bank of America spends more than $250 million a year covering GLP-1 weight loss drugs for its employees, CEO Brian Moynihan told CNBC on Wednesday, saying the rapidly rising cost is a worthwhile investment in his workforce. The company sets aside more than $2 billion a year on healthcare overall for BofA's roughly 211,000 employees, meaning that GLP-1 medications alone now account for roughly 13% of all healthcare spending, per figures provided by Moynihan. "We spend about $250 million or more on GLPs, and that's up from zero" four or five years ago, Moynihan told CNBC's Andrew Ross Sorkin. "We see a great impact on the employees." Employers across the country have grappled with soaring demand for GLP-1 drugs such as Ozempic and Wegovy, which can cost thousands of dollars per patient annually. Many self-insured companies and public employers have dropped or restricted coverage or debated whether they can afford the treatments as utilization has climbed. Moynihan acknowledged that some employees may leave Bank of America before the company realizes the long-term savings from improved health, but he said the decision ultimately reflects a push to provide valuable benefits. Bank of America pairs access to the drugs with health coaching to help monitor weight loss and lifestyle adjustments, the CEO said. Beyond long-term preventative health, Moynihan pointed to emerging clinical data suggesting nearer-term benefits, including a lower incidence of cardiovascular events. "It's been fascinating to watch our teammates' behavior on these adjustments — the loss of weight," he said. Costly coverage The nation's second-largest lender by assets is also using its size to negotiate lower prices from drugmakers and pharmacy benefit managers, he said. "Believe me, we're pounding everybody on price and trying to get as cheap [as possible]," Moynihan said. "But our view is that [because of] the long-term health benefits, plus there may be more short-term health benefits ... it's a good investment." Around 36% of employers said they provide coverage of GLP-1s for both diabetes and weight loss, according to a survey released in July by the International Foundation of Employee Benefit Plans, or IFEBP, which includes more than 30,000 member companies or public institutions. Though that percentage is up slightly from 34% in 2024, it's flat from 2025, the survey found. Cost remains a primary driver in employer decisions around GLP-1 coverage: In 2026, respondents to the IFEBP survey said the drugs accounted for 11.4% of annual claims, up from 6.9% in 2023. Obesity drugmakers Eli Lilly and Novo Nordisk have been pushing to boost employer coverage, which is key to unlocking greater uptake for their treatments. The discounted cash prices of those drugs, which are several hundred dollars a month depending on the dose, are still unsustainable for some patients. In March, Lilly launched a new program designed to give employers more flexibility in how they cover treatments. Through the effort, employers can pay a net discounted price of $449 per month for a new multi-dose form of Zepbound across all doses. VIDEO 12:20 12:20 Watch CNBC's full interview with Bank of America CEO Brian Moynihan Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by