Newborn "cocaine hippo" linked to drug lord Pablo Escobar is rescued in Colombia - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Michigan Senate Primary World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War Michigan Senate Primary World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News World Newborn "cocaine hippo" linked to drug lord Pablo Escobar is rescued in Colombia August 5, 2026 / 1:25 PM EDT / CBS/AFP Add CBS News on Google Authorities in northwestern Colombia said they rescued a newborn hippopotamus found alone by fishermen on the banks of a river and showing signs of malnutrition. Colombia has around 200 so-called "cocaine hippos" living in the wild, according to the Environment Ministry, all of which descended from a colony brought to South America by slain cocaine kingpin Pablo Escobar . Fishermen found the small hippo separated from its mother and hidden in the bushes along the riverbank in a rural area of the Puerto Nare municipality in Antioquia, said Javier Valencia, director of the regional environmental authority, in a statement on Tuesday. Veterinarians treated it for "advanced dehydration and malnutrition," according to a statement. After being stabilized, the animal was transferred to a hippo sanctuary at Hacienda Napoles, the estate previously owned by Escobar and which is now a theme park. Authorities in northwestern Colombia said they rescued a baby hippopotamus found alone by fishermen on the banks of a river and showing signs of malnutrition. Colombia government Escobar imported four hippos in the 1980s for his private zoo at the hacienda. After the Medellin cartel leader's death in 1993, the animals escaped and settled along the banks of the Magdalena River, where they have disrupted the ecosystem and even attacked local residents. Independent journalist Audrey Huse, who has lived in Colombia for years, previously told CBS News that because the hippos roam freely, they end up killing fish and threatening endemic species like manatees, otters and turtles. "Because they have no natural predators here, as they would in Africa, the population is booming and it's affecting the local ecosystem," Huse said. "Because they are such large animals, they consume considerable amounts of grassland and produce significant waste, which then poisons the rivers." They are now considered an invasive species and are destabilizing native ecosystems, prompting the government this year to approve a plan to cull around 80 of them after attempts to curb their reproduction through sterilization failed. The government previously arranged for the possible transfer of hippos to overseas sanctuaries. But the cost of deporting the hippos is also expensive — an estimated $3.5 million . It is the largest hippo colony outside Africa. More from CBS News Family "forever grateful" after 10-year-old rescued from rip current by teen lifeguard WWII explosives detonate in France amid wildfires: "Sound of war" Rep. Marcy Kaptur hospitalized after "hit-skip crash" in Toledo, police say Gaza holds mass funeral for extended family recovered from wartime rubble Go deeper with The Free Press The Drug Turning Philadelphia into a Zombieland America’s Incredible Rescue of Its Downed Airmen in Iran and Trump’s Strategic Options Ahead In: Colombia Pablo Escobar Hippos © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Agence France-Presse contributed to this report. Colombia's hippo population problems Decades after Pablo Escobar brought hippos to Colombia, country now dealing with dozens of them 04:43 Decades after Pablo Escobar brought hippos to Colombia, country now dealing with dozens of them (04:43) Family "forever grateful" after 10-year-old rescued from rip current by teen lifeguard WWII explosives detonate in France amid wildfires: "Sound of war" Rep. Marcy Kaptur hospitalized after "hit-skip crash" in Toledo, police say The Drug Turning Philadelphia into a Zombieland Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue