Boxer charged with killing aid worker in Athens after his wife gave police 'key' details - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Scotland Scotland Politics Scotland Business Edinburgh, Fife & East Glasgow & West Highlands & Islands NE, Orkney & Shetland South Tayside & Central Boxer charged with killing aid worker in Athens after his wife gave police 'key' details Image source, Facebook Image caption, Alaina Hall gave police "key" information about her husband Sharif Ahmadzai By Megan Bonar , BBC Scotland and Ben Philip , Reporting from Athens Published 6 August 2026, 09:07 BST Updated 4 hours ago An Afghan boxer was accused of killing a Scottish aid worker in Greece after his wife gave "key" details to police, the BBC has been told. Sharif Ahmadzai, 26, has been charged with homicide with intent – equivalent to a murder charge in Scots law - alongside robbery and weapons offences. The body of Elisabeth Ross, who was 38, was discovered in a suitcase by a homeless man in a derelict building in the Kypseli area of Athens on 18 July. Ahmadzai's wife, Alaina Hall, is said to have given information to police, including location data which placed her husband and Ross at the same apartment on 15 July – the day Ross is thought to have been killed. Family's tribute to 'kind and selfless' aid worker killed in Greece Published 6 hours ago Appearing in court earlier, Ahmadzai asked for an English translator but did not respond to the charges. His lawyer, Christos Erdas, said his client had exercised his right to remain silent, and that his rights had been "violated" through leaks of evidence and documents from the case file - including his right to the presumption of innocence. The lawyer said that when Ross was found, she had no injuries and any apparent cause of death was "entirely absent". He said his client wanted the forensic medical report and the "toxicological and histological examinations of the deceased" to be included in the case file. Erdas added: "His [Ahmadzai's] stance towards the prosecuting and investigating authorities did not constitute a stance of denial but, on the contrary, one of reservation, so that he may present his defence in full once the case file has been completed with the above essential documents – which were not sought by the preliminary investigating authorities – with the sole aim of establishing the substantive truth for both sides." Ahmadzai was remanded in custody until his trial, which could take up to 18 months. Figure caption, Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker Ahmadzai was initially detained on illegal weapons possession charges and is facing a charge of homicide with intent, as well as allegations that he stole more than €10,000 (£8,500) from the victim's bank accounts using her bank cards. The police union in Greece said that initially, the coroner's report cited an undetermined cause of death, as the body showed no signs of external trauma. It said following a more detailed investigation, autopsy and post-mortem examination, "asphyxiation was listed as the probable cause of death". The union has now told the BBC that officers arrested the accused after his wife provided them with "key" and "decisive" details. Officers involved with the case said these details included sharing a location-tracking app, which placed both Ahmadzai and Ross at the same apartment. Hall, who has a child with Ahmadzai, told police that she and her husband met Elisabeth – known as Lisa - while volunteering for a refugee charity in Athens in February 2026. She described the victim as a "very pleasant and sweet person, kind-hearted, with a good soul". Image source, Facebook Image caption, Elisabeth Ross is believed to have been working with immigrants in Greece Hall claimed that after the three had gone on a walk, her husband remained in touch with Ross for several days. The aid worker is believed to have asked Ahmadzai to help deliver bibles. Court documents claim that on 15 July, Hall said she saw a text message sent from Ross to Ahmadzai which read: "Thank you for your intention to come with me." Hall claimed in a statement that she awoke later that night to find that her husband had left their home without warning. She is quoted as saying: "I checked his location on my cell phone. I saw that he was inside the apartment on Rethymno Street. "I was surprised because there was no particular reason for him to be there at that time." She claimed her husband told her that he was watching football at a café and headed to the apartment to use the toilet – which she initially believed but no longer did. Hall said that in the days that followed, her husband appeared to be particularly upset, blaming the death of a relative in India. She said he suggested they leave the city unexpectedly. Image caption, Elisabeth Ross's body was found in an abandoned building in Athens She said after this, her husband appeared to be happy once again, bought her a new iPhone 17 Pro and later gave her €2,550 (£2,180). Hall said he could not "convincingly" explain where this money came from. When news broke that a woman had been found dead inside a suitcase close to where the couple lived, Hall said she woke up in the middle of the night on 29 July and thought it could be Ross. She told investigators that after messaging the aid worker, the replies "were not in Lisa's style both in terms of her level of English and the use of emojis that she never used". She said this prompted her to become concerned that Ross could be the woman in the suitcase. She told police: "All of the above made me feel strange. Especially combining the dates, the messages and my husband's behaviour. "I have various thoughts that make me feel uncomfortable." After the body was identified, Hall said she received threatening messages with photos of herself and her baby. She told police she became so afraid that she and Ahmadzai left their home and spent the night in different places. Figure caption, Sharif Ahmadzai arrives at court in Athens earlier on Thursday The BBC has been told Ahmadzai denies homicide with intent but admits moving the body, claiming that he did so because he feared he would be blamed for her death. A statement from the police's organised crime directorate said Ahmadzai was brought to a police station on 30 July. "In particular, it emerged that the 26-year-old placed the body in a suitcase and transported it to the abandoned site," the statement said. Ahmadzai is accused of killing Ross, then sending a series of messages from her phone to her friends and family before switching off the device. Greek newspapers Proto Thema and Ta Nea have reported that he bought a phone and texted Ross's friends in Athens, impersonating an unnamed jihadist saying he had killed the Scot because of her religion. The newspapers reported his wife told the police she suspected her husband's involvement in the killing when she woke up to find he was not in their apartment and tracked his phone to where Ross was staying. Police said Ross - who is from Edinburgh and is known to family and friends as Lisa - had been volunteering with a refugee support group based in Athens. She arrived in Greece on 26 June and stayed in the Keratsini area of Piraeus until 10 July. Ross is believed to have died a number of days before she was found. Greek officials contacted Interpol and American authorities were able to identify her fingerprints. The investigation was carried out by Greece's organised crime directorate. Additional reporting by Daphne Toli in Athens and Georgina Hayes. Related topics Edinburgh Greece Athens More on this story Afghan boxer appears in court in connection with death of Scottish woman Published 1 day ago Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece Published 2 days ago Church tribute to 'precious' missionary found dead in suitcase in Greece Published 3 days ago The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:30 Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens. 00:01:30, play video Man charged over death of Scottish aid worker in Athens 1:03 Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show. 00:01:03, play video Knox defends Edinburgh Fringe comedy show 0:58 Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double. 00:00:58, play video Meet the woman who is Matt Damon's Odyssey stunt double 1:24 Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory. 00:01:24, play video Why Ukraine is striking deeper into Russian territory 0:58 Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns. 00:00:58, play video Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row resigns 0:59 Are summer sandals killing your feet? 00:00:59, play video Are summer sandals killing your feet? 1:19 England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations. 00:01:19, play video England's education gaps hidden in holiday destinations 0:38 Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan. 00:00:38, play video Moment first rare tiger in 70 years released in Kazakhstan 1:19 Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban. 00:01:19, play video Afghan women's team reunite to play football after ban 1:41 Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college. 00:01:41, play video Women tell BBC of rape and abuse at teen army college 0:18 Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought. 00:00:18, play video Sunken WW2 ships emerge from Danube amid drought 0:55 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike. 00:00:55, play video 'It is what it is': Ukrainian man's house destroyed in strike 1:41 AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos. 00:01:41, play video AI or real? BBC analyses viral China disaster videos 1:05 Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 00:01:05, play video Should men be allowed to wear shorts in the office? 0:59 How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease. 00:00:59, play video How Didi Conn returned to the world of Grease 0:39 What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 00:00:39, play video What do we know about the Covent Garden stabbings? 0:39 Advert banned for glamorising smoking. 00:00:39, play video Advert banned for glamorising smoking 0:50 Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon. 00:00:50, play video Part of SpaceX rocket believed to have struck Moon 1:12 South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave. 00:01:12, play video South Korea hit by record-breaking heatwave 0:41 Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya. 00:00:41, play video Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya Top stories Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption Published 19 minutes ago Burnham orders review of grooming gang early releases Published 8 hours ago Uefa says boycott may still go ahead as FA withdraws Infantino support Published 5 hours ago More to explore The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon Shorts, strappy tops and sandals: What is acceptable to wear to work? 'I've had to Botox my CV': Are AI recruitment tools affecting women's careers? Steve the featherless parrot gets his colour back Sunshine to meal times: How to beat jet lag Walk-in mental health centres to open in banks and libraries across England Our daughter's death at 18 left us shattered - but she saved two lives Why aren't more women getting into padel? Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC An unproven treatment which claims to cure cancer is investigated Is the rules-based order ending and what might replace it? Trust and treachery unfold in a historic Canadian manor Listen to the latest update on the Missing in Action episode Most read 1 Arrests in Thetford as disorder continues for third night 2 Artificial Intelligence used to design brand new viruses 3 Met Police boss admits mistake over plagiarism row 4 Amanda Knox defends Fringe comedy show after claims it will 'trivialise violence' 5 South Korea space agency shares Moon images after SpaceX rocket debris crash 6 Stephen Bear jailed for breaching restraining order 7 Former duke chased by alleged stalker, court hears 8 Thousands of rail passengers hit by power failure disruption 9 Boxer charged with killing aid worker in Athens after his wife gave police 'key' details 10 Trump denies US weapons shortage and says information 'leakers' being 'hunted down' BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.