Stevens says of El-Sayed: "Differences were aired out" and "we did the unity deal" - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War ICE Detention World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News Politics Stevens says of El-Sayed: "Differences were aired out" and "we did the unity deal" By Caitlin Yilek Caitlin Yilek Politics Reporter Caitlin Yilek is a politics reporter at CBSNews.com, based in Washington, D.C. She previously worked for the Washington Examiner and The Hill, and was a member of the 2022 Paul Miller Washington Reporting Fellowship with the National Press Foundation. Read Full Bio Caitlin Yilek August 6, 2026 / 6:22 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google Washington — Democratic Rep. Haley Stevens of Michigan said Thursday she's moving on from the contentious Senate primary , which she lost to Abdul El-Sayed, saying their "differences were aired out." "Everything that needed to be said in the primary was said," Stevens said in an interview with "The Takeout with Major Garrett." "It's a big tent party." Stevens acknowledged that the race put the schism within the Democratic Party over U.S. support for Israel on display, but said "the time for all this negative, nasty, the disunity stuff — it's over." El-Sayed attacked Stevens throughout the campaign for support she received from the pro-Israel lobby. El-Sayed has been highly critical of Israel's government and the war in Gaza, while Stevens continues to back sending U.S. military aid to Israel. "I'm going to continue to hold my beliefs. I know it's a a word sometimes that people don't understand, but I am a Democratic Zionist," she said. "There is a home in the party that I'm still in for someone like me." Though Stevens stressed a unified front moving forward, she was evasive on whether she would appear with El-Sayed on the campaign trail as he takes on his Republican opponent in the November race, former Rep. Mike Rogers. "Abdul's got a big campaign to run," she said. "We did the unity deal." "My focus here is, no Rogers. No Republicans," she added. "Abdul and I had our primary. It's over. It's over." More from CBS News Sherrill enters national political fray with first midterm endorsements House Democrats targeting 12 new GOP districts, including Lauren Boebert's seat Trump issues new executive orders aimed at birthright citizenship Rick Brattin wins Republican primary for Missouri seat redrawn to favor GOP Go deeper with The Free Press Why Abdul El-Sayed Won Roy Cooper, Sherrod Brown, and the Road to Democratic Victory In: United States Senate Election Michigan © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Stevens discusses primary loss to El-Sayed Stevens on backing El-Sayed after primary loss: "I am going to be a part of stopping MAGA and Trump" 11:11 Stevens on backing El-Sayed after primary loss: "I am going to be a part of stopping MAGA and Trump" (11:11) Sherrill enters national political fray with first midterm endorsements House Democrats targeting 12 new GOP districts, including Lauren Boebert's seat Trump issues new executive orders aimed at birthright citizenship Why Abdul El-Sayed Won Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue