Rockstar Energy founder builds Celsius stake, wants to become CEO Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Food & Beverage Rockstar Energy founder builds Celsius stake, wants to take over as CEO Published Fri, Aug 7 2026 11:20 AM EDT Updated Fri, Aug 7 2026 4:23 PM EDT Robert Frank @robtfrank WATCH LIVE Key Points Rockstar Energy founder Russ Savage told CNBC he now controls 12 million shares of Celsius Holdings, amounting to roughly 4.7% of the energy drink company. Savage said Celsius leadership needs to be replaced after this week's earnings miss and what he called management missteps. He's putting himself forth to become CEO. Celsius didn't immediately respond to request for comment. In this article CELH Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 1:37 01:37 Rockstar Energy founder builds Celsius stake, wants to take over as CEO Squawk on the Street The billionaire founder of Rockstar Energy has purchased millions of shares of Celsius Holdings and is calling for the ouster of that company's CEO after its earnings miss this week. Russ Savage now controls more than 12 million shares of Celsius, he told CNBC. Celsius markets its energy drinks to athletes and health-conscious consumers and has exploded in popularity in recent years. Savage founded Rockstar in 2001 and sold it to PepsiCo in 2020 for a final purchase price of more than $4 billion, he said. Savage's stake in Celsius amounts to roughly 4.7% of the company and would be worth about $300 million at current stock levels. While Savage has been quietly advising Celsius to change its cost structure and marketing strategy for over a year, he now says new leadership is needed. "The CEO, the COO, the brand manager and the marketing manager all need to be fired," Savage told CNBC. Celsius said in response that it is seeing continued demand and resilience across its base. "We welcome ideas that are potentially value-creating from all Celsius Holdings shareholders," a company spokesperson said in a statement. "We remain focused on executing our total energy portfolio strategy to drive durable, long-term growth. Members of our Board and management team have engaged with Russ Savage many times over the past several years." Russ Savage, founder of Rockstar Energy. Courtesy: Russ Savage Celsius shares plunged 18% on Thursday after the company's second-quarter earnings missed analyst expectations, coming in at 36 cents per share versus the 43 cents expected by Wall Street, according to LSEG. Revenue of $817.9 million fell below the $870 million expected, and net income attributable to common shareholders fell by more than half compared to last year's second quarter. On the company's earnings call, Celsius Chairman and CEO John Fieldly cited a product rationalization program and deliberate pause in innovation as main reasons for the shortfall. He said the company was managing the integration of Alani Nu, which it acquired last year for $1.8 billion, and of the Rockstar brand in the U.S. and Canada, which it acquired from Pepsi also last year as part of a long-term strategic partnership. Pepsi continues to own the Rockstar brand internationally. Fieldly said on the earnings call that the company may have been overly aggressive in reducing the number of products being sold to make way for newer lines. Still, he said, the company sells 1 out of every 5 energy drinks in the U.S., and the sector remains strong. "We are a key growth driver for the energy category, and we are just beginning to unlock the full potential of our expanding portfolio," Fieldly said. Get Inside Wealth directly to your inbox The Inside Wealth newsletter by Robert Frank is your weekly guide to high-net-worth investors and the industries that serve them. Subscribe here to get access today . Savage, who was born Russell Weiner and started Rockstar with a $50,000 mortgage against his California condo, said he offered advice to Celsius over a year ago, but was largely ignored. He said Celsius has too many layers of management, with too many costs, and no real accountability. "They need one person making the decisions, paying attention to every detail, not a circle of people in a firing squad," he said. Savage said the implication in the earnings call, that Celsius gave up shelf space to make way for its other brands, was a dire signal. In the fast-moving and hypercompetitive energy drink space, it's difficult for brands to reclaim shelf space once they've lost it, he said. "Once you lose shelf space, you're dead," he said. "The chains will give it to Red Bull or Monster ." Savage said he's offering to take over as CEO before the problems become too deep to fix. When building Rockstar, he said, he managed every detail — from sales and marketing to sponsorships, packaging, distribution and innovation. He said the same type of cost-conscious, driven leader is needed at Celsius. "I'm publicly volunteering to do it," he said. "The CEO has lost credibility with the investment community." Savage said he's owned Celsius shares on and off for more than two years. He started acquiring his most recent stake in March, when the stock fell to the low $30 range. He said he bought the stock thinking it was undervalued and poised for a recovery. But he blamed what he called management missteps for the shares' continued decline. "I didn't think they would wreck it this badly," he said. "Now I'm trying to help fix it." Celsius stock now trades at almost out $28 per share after a sharp gain on Friday following CNBC's report of Savage's stake. Celsius Holdings 3-day chart. Correction: This story has been updated to correct a direct quote attributed to Russ Savage. He said: "They need one person making the decisions, paying attention to every detail, not a circle of people in a firing squad. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by