Venezuela earthquake damages add up to almost $20 billion, World Bank says | Euronews Go to navigation Go to main content Go to search Go to footer English English Français Deutsch Italiano Español Português Polski Pусский Türkçe Ελληνικά Magyar فارسی العربية Shqip Română ქართული български Srpski BHS Newsletters Events Podcasts Videos Africanews Latest Trending US-Israel attack on Iran 2026 War in Ukraine Donald Trump Nepal Russia China Latest news Europe Today Europe jolted by the Kremlin’s ‘hybrid’ escalation Europe Today Šefčovič: China must deliver by October or face ‘harsher measures’ Europe News At least two people injured in explosion at German train station Europe Today Live. EU foreign ministers meet as Germany attributes drone attack to Russia Europe Categories EU.XL Europe News Europe Series France United Kingdom Programmes Europe in Motion The Cube The Europe Conversation 12 minutes with Made in Europe Brussels, My Love? Euronews investigates Make it Work Smart Regions Featured Europe Today Euronews' flagship morning TV show with the news and insights that drive Europe, live from Brussels every morning at 08.00. Also available as a newsletter and podcast. The Ring The Ring is Euronews’ weekly political showdown, where Europe’s toughest debates meet their boldest voices. In each episode, two political heavyweights from across the EU face off to propose a diversity of opinions and spark conversations around the most important issues of EU affairs and the wider European political life. World Categories World Americas Middle East Africa Asia Oceania Davos Iran Greenland USA Programmes Spotlight Global Japan Euronews Witness Qatar 365 World News Euronews Debates Football Now Top News Stories Today Featured No Comment No agenda, no argument, no bias, No Comment. Get the story without commentary. EU Policy Business Categories Business Economy Markets Programmes Business Planet Energy Frontiers Focus Real Economy Start Me Up The Dialogue Target The Exchange Featured My Wildest Prediction Dare to imagine the future with business and tech visionaries The Big Question Deep dive conversations with business leaders Travel Categories Travel News Destinations Moments Residences Travel Live TV Programmes Grand Voyager Adventures Conscious Travel Explore Golf Travel Tales Notes From The Usa Soul Of The South Taste Women Beyond Borders Next Categories Tech News Money Space Work Mobility Home Artificial intelligence Programmes Dub.AI Hacker Hunter Rethink Sci-Tech Featured Euronews Tech Talks Euronews Tech Talks goes beyond discussions to explore the impact of new technologies on our lives. With explanations, engaging Q&As, and lively conversations, the podcast provides valuable insights into the intersection of technology and society. The Food Detectives Europe's best food experts are joining forces to crack down on fraud. Euronews is following them in this special series: The Food Detectives Culture Categories Culture news Style Design Art Taste Music Cinema Programmes Creators Crossing Cultures Cry Like A Boy Cult Inspire Saudi Meet The Locals Melting Pot Culture Modern Nomads Musica Scenes The Kitchen The Star Ingredient Earth Categories Earth News Nature Water EcoTech Programmes Ocean Ocean Calls The Road To Green Featured Water Matters Europe's water is under increasing pressure. Pollution, droughts, floods are taking their toll on our drinking water, lakes, rivers and coastlines. Join us on a journey around Europe to see why protecting ecosystems matters, how our wastewater can be better managed, and to discover some of the best water solutions. Video reports, an animated explainer series and live debate - find out why Water Matters, from Euronews. Climate Now We give you the latest climate facts from the world’s leading source, analyse the trends and explain how our planet is changing. We meet the experts on the front line of climate change who explore new strategies to mitigate and adapt. Health Categories Health news Healthcare Nutrition Wellbeing Programmes Smart Health Euroviews Videos More Special coverage Climate Global Japan InClassica Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Young Inventors Prize 2025 Discover Algeria Discover Türkiye Golf Travel Tales From Qatar Uzbekistan Partner content Islamic Civilization Center Be Bold. Discover Saudi Leading Edge Powering Progress Experience Brazil Italy – Heritage & Horizons Poland Untold Costa Rica Beyond Business Saadiyat Cultural District My Tokyo Kerala Tourism Dubai Global Digital Economy Hub Turkmenistan - Our story Endless Discovery Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan Services Weather Bulletin Messaging apps Widgets & Services Online Language Courses Find Us Log In My Account Live Close menu sidebar English English Français Deutsch Italiano Español Português Polski Pусский Türkçe Ελληνικά Magyar فارسی العربية Shqip Română ქართული български Srpski BHS Latest Trending US-Israel attack on Iran 2026 War in Ukraine Donald Trump Nepal Russia China Latest news Europe Today Europe jolted by the Kremlin’s ‘hybrid’ escalation Europe Today Šefčovič: China must deliver by October or face ‘harsher measures’ Europe News At least two people injured in explosion at German train station Europe Today Live. EU foreign ministers meet as Germany attributes drone attack to Russia Europe Categories EU.XL Europe News Europe Series France United Kingdom Programmes Europe in Motion The Cube The Europe Conversation 12 minutes with Made in Europe Brussels, My Love? Euronews investigates Make it Work Smart Regions Featured Europe Today Euronews' flagship morning TV show with the news and insights that drive Europe, live from Brussels every morning at 08.00. Also available as a newsletter and podcast. The Ring The Ring is Euronews’ weekly political showdown, where Europe’s toughest debates meet their boldest voices. In each episode, two political heavyweights from across the EU face off to propose a diversity of opinions and spark conversations around the most important issues of EU affairs and the wider European political life. World Categories World Americas Middle East Africa Asia Oceania Davos Iran Greenland USA Programmes Spotlight Global Japan Euronews Witness Qatar 365 World News Euronews Debates Football Now Top News Stories Today Featured No Comment No agenda, no argument, no bias, No Comment. Get the story without commentary. EU Policy Business Categories Business Economy Markets Programmes Business Planet Energy Frontiers Focus Real Economy Start Me Up The Dialogue Target The Exchange Featured My Wildest Prediction Dare to imagine the future with business and tech visionaries The Big Question Deep dive conversations with business leaders Travel Categories Travel News Destinations Moments Residences Travel Live TV Programmes Grand Voyager Adventures Conscious Travel Explore Golf Travel Tales Notes From The Usa Soul Of The South Taste Women Beyond Borders Next Categories Tech News Money Space Work Mobility Home Artificial intelligence Programmes Dub.AI Hacker Hunter Rethink Sci-Tech Featured Euronews Tech Talks Euronews Tech Talks goes beyond discussions to explore the impact of new technologies on our lives. With explanations, engaging Q&As, and lively conversations, the podcast provides valuable insights into the intersection of technology and society. The Food Detectives Europe's best food experts are joining forces to crack down on fraud. Euronews is following them in this special series: The Food Detectives Culture Categories Culture news Style Design Art Taste Music Cinema Programmes Creators Crossing Cultures Cry Like A Boy Cult Inspire Saudi Meet The Locals Melting Pot Culture Modern Nomads Musica Scenes The Kitchen The Star Ingredient Earth Categories Earth News Nature Water EcoTech Programmes Ocean Ocean Calls The Road To Green Featured Water Matters Europe's water is under increasing pressure. Pollution, droughts, floods are taking their toll on our drinking water, lakes, rivers and coastlines. Join us on a journey around Europe to see why protecting ecosystems matters, how our wastewater can be better managed, and to discover some of the best water solutions. Video reports, an animated explainer series and live debate - find out why Water Matters, from Euronews. Climate Now We give you the latest climate facts from the world’s leading source, analyse the trends and explain how our planet is changing. We meet the experts on the front line of climate change who explore new strategies to mitigate and adapt. Health Categories Health news Healthcare Nutrition Wellbeing Programmes Smart Health Euroviews Videos More Special coverage Climate Global Japan InClassica Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Young Inventors Prize 2025 Discover Algeria Discover Türkiye Golf Travel Tales From Qatar Uzbekistan Partner content Islamic Civilization Center Be Bold. Discover Saudi Leading Edge Powering Progress Experience Brazil Italy – Heritage & Horizons Poland Untold Costa Rica Beyond Business Saadiyat Cultural District My Tokyo Kerala Tourism Dubai Global Digital Economy Hub Turkmenistan - Our story Endless Discovery Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan Services Weather Bulletin Messaging apps Widgets & Services Online Language Courses Newsletters Events Podcasts Videos Africanews Find Us Advertisement Business Economy Venezuela earthquake damages add up to almost $20 billion, World Bank says Rescue workers and relatives look at the searching to recovery bodies in a collapsed building by the earthquakes in La Guaira, Venezuela, Tuesday, July 21, 2026. - Copyright AP Photo/ Ariana Cubillos Copyright AP Photo/ Ariana Cubillos By Indrabati Lahiri Published on 23/07/2026 - 16:03 GMT+2 • Updated 19:46 Share Comments Add Euronews on Google Share Facebook Twitter Flipboard Send Reddit Linkedin Messenger Telegram VK Bluesky Threads Whatsapp Copy/paste the article video embed link below: Copied Almost a month after the devastating earthquakes, Venezuela has a mammoth task ahead in terms of rebuilding, rehabilitating and mitigating the social and economic damage of the biggest natural disaster in decades. The 24 June Venezuela earthquakes could have resulted in around $19.6 billion (€17.2bn) worth of direct physical damage, according to the World Bank Group. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT This significant number underscores the country's need to invest in timely, resilient reconstruction for the economy to recover. The findings were highlighted in a Global Rapid Damage Estimation (GRADE), carried out by the World Bank and published on Thursday. The primary aim of the assessment is to provide the Venezuelan government and development partners with early insight into the scale of the rebuilding needed, and help outline the reconstruction and recovery efforts which need the most immediate attention to recover from the large-scale disaster. "The earthquakes have disrupted lives, damaged critical infrastructure, and created new challenges for Venezuela's recovery," Susana Cordeiro Guerra, World Bank Vice President for Latin America and the Caribbean, said in a press release. "Recovering effectively begins with reliable evidence. This assessment gives the Government of Venezuela and its partners an early objective foundation for recovery planning, and the World Bank Group is committed to supporting that effort every step of the way," Guerra added. Related Deaths from Venezuela earthquakes rise above 5,000 Magnitude 5.1 earthquake in central Peru leaves at least five dead and ten injured Majority of damage to residential buildings The GRADE assessment estimated that 47% of the total damage was to residential buildings, with infrastructure accounting for 27%. Non-residential buildings made up 26% of the total damage. La Guaira state and Distrito Capital bore the brunt of the damage, accounting for approximately half of the total impact. The World Bank Group also conducted additional analysis of the possible macro- and socio-economic implications of the earthquake, as well as what recovery could entail. This data revealed that the pace of reconstruction will be of paramount importance in shaping how well the Venezuelan economy and society recovers. Given the current state of public and private investment, most of the reconstruction funds would likely need to be diverted away from other less critical investment projects. In this situation, reconstruction is expected to take over 10 years, with considerable negative effects on economic activity. On the other hand, by prioritising rapid reconstruction and assigning higher public and private investment for this purpose, the economic and social impact of the earthquake could be greatly mitigated. How has the GRADE methodology estimated damage? The GRADE methodology offers an independent and, most importantly, fast way of assessing direct physical damage after a significant disaster. It uses satellite imagery, exposure data, remote sensing, and engineering models, with more detailed sector assessments where needed. In the case of the Venezuela earthquakes, GRADE combined earthquake damage modelling, catastrophe risk modelling, validation and calibration, and an assessment of the capital stock value of different sectors and assets. Authorities recover bodies in the rubble of a building collapsed by the twin earthquakes, La Guaira, Venezuela, 15 July 2026 AP Photo/Ariana Cubillos A mix of historical data and scientific data, such as ground motion, engineering assessments of structural vulnerability, information on the built environment and population, was also used, along with reported damage data from the government, community-based organisations, development partners, media, and social media. The GRADE assessment for Venezuela also received financial support from the Government of Japan through the Program for Mainstreaming Disaster Risk Management in Developing Countries and the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery (GFDRR). Household vulnerability should also be considered when rebuilding The GRADE assessment also highlighted that household vulnerability should be given particular consideration when embarking on rebuilding efforts. This includes social factors such as age, income, housing quality, along with economic and environmental health, which can help determine a particular demographic’s vulnerability to disasters. In this case, seven of the most affected states: Miranda, La Guaira, Distrito Capital, Carabobo, Yaracuy, Aragua and Falcón30 were home to around 11.5 million people, around 40% of the country’s population. These seven states also held almost half of Venezuela’s exposed building and infrastructure stock, valued at around $657bn (€576.8bn). Some of the social vulnerabilities seen in demographics across these states included female-headed households, single-parent households and households with elderly, disabled or ailing people. As such, the GRADE assessment found that the restoration and maintenance of basic services such as water and electricity could be particularly beneficial to these communities during rebuilding. This is because service disruptions within vulnerable households can have outsized consequences, even when physical building damage is relatively low. This lack of services could also deepen existing inequalities rather than affect households uniformly. These insights could significantly help the Venezuelan government focus recovery efforts on high-priority areas in the coming months, to achieve progress as quickly as possible. However, population size and limited institutional capacity remain major challenges to the pace and quality of response and recovery. Go to accessibility shortcuts Share Comments Add Euronews on Google Read more Economy ECB holds rates at 2.25% as reignited Iran war boosts inflation fears Economy Oil producers race to build alternatives to Hormuz as oil hits $100 Economy Cost of pay gap in the EU: Women earn €3,900 less than men a year World Bank Venezuela venezuela crisis damage Economy Earthquake ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Top stories Venezuela hands the US control over a fifth of its oil in landmark deal ECB rate hike looms as energy shock pushes inflation to 3.3% Death of Germany's richest man creates a giant charitable foundation Trump vows US will take 'all' of Venezuela's oil as deal details emerge European government bond yields surge to 15-year highs as sell-off deepens ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Most read 1 Death of Germany's richest man creates a giant charitable foundation 2 Trump vows US will take 'all' of Venezuela's oil as deal details emerge 3 Europe's most expensive cities to buy an apartment 4 German inflation rises to 2.9% in August, coming in below expectations 5 European government bond yields surge to 15-year highs as sell-off deepens ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Browse today's tags US-Israel attack on Iran 2026 War in Ukraine Donald Trump Nepal Russia China Germany Spain Defence European Union Travel fast fashion Themes Europe World Business EU Policy Earth Next Health Travel Culture Videos Programmes Our journalists Euronews Archives – browse all articles and videos online Services Live Bulletin Weather Latest Follow us Apps Messaging apps Widgets & Services Africanews Online Language Courses More About Euronews Commercial Services Terms and Conditions Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Transparency Contact Work at Euronews Accessibility: non-compliant Modify my cookies choices Follow us Newsletters Copyright © euronews 2026