Threat of legal action if PC Andrew Harper’s killers are released early | UK criminal justice | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 3 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Support the Guardian Last chance to fund independent journalism with 50% off Claim discount Claim discount Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland Andrew Harper, 28, died when he was dragged down a country road in Berkshire by three men fleeing the scene of a quad bike theft. Photograph: Thames Valley Police/PA View image in fullscreen Andrew Harper, 28, died when he was dragged down a country road in Berkshire by three men fleeing the scene of a quad bike theft. Photograph: Thames Valley Police/PA UK criminal justice Threat of legal action if PC Andrew Harper’s killers are released early Thames Valley chief says he may join Police Federation in court if Jessie Cole and Albert Bowers are freed from prison Geraldine McKelvie Wed 5 Aug 2026 15.51 EDT Last modified on Wed 5 Aug 2026 15.53 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google The chief constable of Thames Valley police has said he will consider joining legal action against the government if it fails to block the early release of two of PC Andrew Harper’s killers. The Police Federation is contemplating going to court in its attempts to keep Jessie Cole and Albert Bowers in prison. In August 2019, Harper, 28, died when he was dragged down a country road in Berkshire by a car as Cole, Bowers and their accomplice Henry Long fled the scene of a quad bike theft. All three were convicted of manslaughter in 2020. Cole and Bowers were sentenced to 13 years in prison and could be released early as part of the government’s drive to free up prison places. Long, who was driving the car, was given a 16-year jail sentence and does not qualify for early release. View image in fullscreen Jessie Cole and Albert Bowers are serving a 13-year sentence for manslaughter. Photograph: Thames Valley police/PA On Wednesday morning, Jason Hogg, who was on duty the night Harper died, told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme that he would “certainly” consider joining the Police Federation in court action if the government refused to reverse its position, pending legal advice. “I was contacted by the Police Federation yesterday who informed me they are seeking legal advice, exploring opportunities for a judicial review against the government,” he told the Guardian on Wednesday afternoon. “So I’m watching with interest and I will be speaking to the Police Federation again. “But my hope is that we will never get there and that there is no need for the Police Federation to go down the line of a judicial review because the government will listen. ” ‘We fought for a tougher sentence’: victims’ families’ fury over early release scheme Read more Prison capacity in England and Wales is at critical levels. From October, the government plans to release about 5,000 prisoners who have served a third of their sentence. Harper’s widow, Lissie, successfully campaigned for a change in the law after his death. Legislation introduced in 2022 means those convicted of the manslaughter of emergency workers on duty now face mandatory life sentences. However, the law cannot be applied retrospectively. Hogg said he wrote to the prime minister, Andy Burnham , 12 days ago to express concerns that Cole and Bowers might be included in the scheme, but had not received a reply. He added that he planned to write again to Burnham, the home secretary, Shabana Mahmood, and the justice secretary, Alex Norris, to convey “the impact of the decision on the morale of my officers, but also on the 2,000 people who work in policing across the country”. Hogg would not be drawn on whether all prisoners convicted of manslaughter should be exempt from the scheme. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Every day Sign up to Headlines UK Get the day’s headlines and highlights emailed direct to you every morning Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion View image in fullscreen Thames Valley police chief constable Jason Hogg was on duty the night Harper died. Photograph: Jaimi Joy/Reuters The government has already said those serving sentences for rape, serious child sexual offences and grooming will not be released early, after a campaign by victims. “It isn’t my role to set government policy or set the law,” Hogg said. “But I think if you ask most people in the streets, they would probably say people who take the life of another person in our country should remain behind bars as long as possible, and I don’t think that’s particularly controversial.” However, he added that the fact Harper was an emergency services worker is a “significantly aggravating factor”. Hogg said that the criminal justice system also needed “greater investment around rehabilitation”. He said the National Police Chiefs’ Council estimated that it would cost about £480m to manage the freed offenders in the community. “I think there needs to be a balance between the risk caused [by] prisons being full, but also the risk of releasing people early who still pose a risk to the public,” he said. “One of the challenges around the Sentencing Act [is that it] releases people on the basis of the crime committed, not on the basis of how reformed they are, have they been rehabilitated, and not on the basis of the risk they pose back in the community. “So if you have somebody who still poses the risk … has felt no remorse, and they are back on the streets early, of course that risk has to be managed by the probation service and policing.” Explore more on these topics UK criminal justice Police Police Federation Prisons and probation Andy Burnham Berkshire news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Unprecedented images may explain one of greatest mysteries of the sun Mexican influencer shot dead while streaming live on social media One Night Only review – sex is legal for 12 hours a year in bizarre romcom Film posters for The Mummy banned from public display in UK The Leipzig drone bomb marks a dangerous escalation for Europe Most viewed Most viewed UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)