Glen Hansard funeral: Bono, Eddie Vedder and Hozier among mourners - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Climate World US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health More In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat World Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East Bono, Eddie Vedder and Hozier among mourners at Glen Hansard's funeral Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Stars from the world of music attended the funeral of Glen Hansard on Tuesday By Fiona Murray and Adam Mandeville , BBC News NI Published 4 August 2026, 06:07 BST Updated 4 hours ago Stars from the world of music including U2's Bono, Pearl Jam's lead singer Eddie Vedder, and Hozier, attended the funeral of Glen Hansard on Tuesday. The 56-year-old Oscar-winning Irish singer and songwriter died in a motorcycle crash in Dublin last week. Hansard, who shot to prominence in 1991 musical comedy film The Commitments, was long-time frontman of acclaimed rock band The Frames. News of his sudden death shocked the music world and fans alike, with tributes being paid from the likes of Ed Sheeran and Bruce Springsteen, who said he was "heartbroken". Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Glen Hansard was the lead singer of The Frames and an Oscar-winning songwriter Many people also paid their respects at a public wake in the city on Monday . The funeral was held in St Patrick's Cathedral in Dublin on Tuesday and featured musical performances by friends and family. Mourners included Bono, Eddie Vedder, Hozier, The Edge, Steve Coogan, Imelda May, Paddy Casey, Declan O'Rourke, and Angeline Ball, who starred alongside Hansard in the BAFTA-winning comedy-drama The Commitments. Representatives of the President of Ireland Catherine Connolly and the Taoiseach (Irish PM) Micheál Martin were also among the mourners. Image source, Getty Images Image caption, The funeral was held in St Patrick's Cathedral in Dublin At the start of the service, a guitar was brought up to the altar by Colm Mac Con Iomaire, a former Frames band member. Mac Con Iomaire went on to perform a song for those gathered alongside Liam Ó Maonlaí. Irish traditional musician Breandáin Ó Beaglaoich said Hansard "was so well known on the big stages of Ireland and all over the world". He described him as an "ordinary kind-hearted Ballymun man.. a true Dub." Ó Beaglaoich also performed a song. Image caption, Hansard's former partner Markéta Irglová performed alongside Pearl Jam singer Eddie Vedder Many of Hansard's other famous friends performed in the ceremony including U2 frontman Bono, Hothouse Flowers frontman Liam Ó Maonlaí, and singer-songwriters Damien Dempsey and Lisa O'Neill. Eddie Vedder, the lead singer of Pearl Jam, and Hansard's former partner and bandmate Markéta Irglová - who won an Oscar alongside him - performed Hansard's The Song of Good Hope. Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Bafta winner Steve Coogan attended the funeral of Glen Hansard on Tuesday Glen Hansard's widow, the Finnish poet Maire Saaritsa, thanked her late husband "for the life we shared, searching for truth and beauty side by side". Fighting back tears, she said they found that truth and beauty in their three-year-old son, Christy. "He cannot be here today, he is too young to witness or understand an event of such scale," she says. But she added: "The bright spirit he inherited from his father is with us." Image source, PA Media Image caption, Musicians Cait O'Riordan and Imelda May were photographed arriving to the service Irish superstar Bono recited U2's song A Beautiful Day. As the recital ended he began to sing the song, urging the congregation to join in. U2's lead guitarist The Edge also attended the service and approached the microphone to join in the version of Beautiful Day as his band-mate Bono finished his recital. At the end of the service, the coffin left the church to a musical send-off, with mourners inside the building continuing to sing along to a rendition of Bob Dylan's Forever Young. A life of music Hansard's life was steeped in music, from first picking up a guitar as a teenager right until the final hours of his life, when he was performing in a traditional music session. His career spanned more than three decades, including winning the Academy Award for Best Original Song in 2008 with Marketa Irglova, which featured in the low-budget musical romance film Once. Image source, Damien Eagers/PA Wire Image caption, Tributes, candles and flowers were laid in Temple Bar, Dublin, as people signed a book of condolence for Oscar-winning Irish musician Hansard He and Irglova released three albums as The Swell Season, while Hansard also encountered success as a solo artist with 2016 album Didn't He Ramble being nominated for a Grammy in 2016. He formed The Frames one year before The Commitments, going on to record six studio albums including Dance The Devil, For The Birds and Irish chart topper Burn The Maps. Hansard also released five solo albums up to 2023's All That Was East Is West Of Me. Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Hansard performing on stage with The Frames at Coachella in 2007 The musician, who became a father three years ago, has also been hailed by charities for his work in raising money for the homeless. In 2010, he started an annual Christmas Eve busk in Dublin City Centre, which attracted high-profile musicians including Sinéad O'Connor and Shane McGowan. Hansard's friend, artist Colin Davidson, said the busk had become "an international Irish institution in its own right". 'A loss to Ireland' Image source, Damien Eagers/PA Wire Image caption, Musicians playing at a public wake for Glen Hansard at the Irish Museum of Modern Art in Dublin on Monday Following Hansard's death, many people travelled to sign a book of condolence in Temple Bar in Dublin. And thousands of fans queued to pay tribute to the musician, during his public wake on Monday. Fans spoke about going to his concerts and seeing him busking on the street. Danni Rohde, a fan of Hansard's band, The Frames, said it "doesn't feel real". Another fan, Chris James, said he saw Hansard busking for the first time 25 years ago on Dublin's Grafton Street. "I thought it one of the coolest things I'd ever seen and one of the reasons I picked up and started playing guitar," he said. One fan described his death as a loss to Ireland. Related topics Republic of Ireland Dublin Music More on this story 'It's just a loss to Ireland': Fans pay tribute to Glen Hansard at public wake Published 1 day ago Glen Hansard: A life in song and stories Published 5 days ago Oscar-winning songwriter Glen Hansard killed in crash Published 6 days ago The video playlist Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Previous Next 1:01 Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack. 00:01:01, play video Ukrainian vegetable seller targeted in 'human safari' drone attack 0:57 Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites. 00:00:57, play video Three days of strikes at 'Russian Amazon' Wildberries sites 1:26 What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens. 00:01:26, play video What we know about death of Scottish woman in Athens 1:30 Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment. 00:01:30, play video Swimmer's emotional plea for cancer investment 0:37 Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport. 00:00:37, play video Pilot caught with 70,000 ecstasy pills at airport 1:01 What are the 'luteal uglies'? 00:01:01, play video What are the 'luteal uglies'? 0:59 Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 00:00:59, play video Are current breast cancer checks good enough? 0:40 US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak. 00:00:40, play video US reports first deaths linked to cyclospora outbreak 0:35 PC Harper's mother on early release for killers. 00:00:35, play video PC Harper's mother on early release for killers 0:41 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti. 00:00:41, play video 'Minion Man' paints over anti-social graffiti 0:54 Why Scotland's exam results come first. 00:00:54, play video Why Scotland's exam results come first 1:06 Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 00:01:06, play video Can Reform use Royal Navy to stop small boat crossings? 0:39 Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests. 00:00:39, play video Wild police chase in Australia ends in two arrests 1:09 Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos. 00:01:09, play video Aung San Suu Kyi appears healthy in new photos 0:25 Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas. 00:00:25, play video Harissa couscous with crispy chickpeas 0:45 Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer. 00:00:45, play video Former X Factor finalist denies murder of influencer 0:55 Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight. 00:00:55, play video Lessons for Europe's growing wildfire fight 0:27 Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend. 00:00:27, play video Spider-Man makes $927 million in first weekend 0:59 How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president. 00:00:59, play video How Gianni Infantino became Fifa president 1:57 Are some schools taking discipline too far? 00:01:57, play video Are some schools taking discipline too far? Top stories Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack Published 4 hours ago More than 170 migrants rescued after boat catches fire in Channel Published 1 hour ago Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece Published 2 hours ago More to explore Which area has the best grades? Key takeaways from Scotland's exam results How to avoid the worst of the Italian heat I left my wife and twins behind - why this Nigerian man fled South Africa Breast cancer checks missing most women under 50 who are at risk, says study There's a reason child vaccination rates are falling - and it's not social media Ariana Grande has had enough of body comments, but 'scrutiny' will linger After three traumatic years at uni, I fear I won't get my dream nursing job Woman has pioneering womb surgery to fix 'miracle' baby with intestines outside its body Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter Elsewhere on the BBC 'I said maybeeee...' Follow police investigations from the 999 call to conviction The return of the thrilling, award-winning drama about the CIA Tommy and John Fury debate what makes a home Most read 1 Princess Eugenie gives birth to baby girl in Portugal 2 Athletes go 'missing' after Commonwealth Games ends 3 Video shows Russian drone chasing Ukrainian street vendor in 'human safari' attack 4 Major search under way for boy, 13, missing at sea 5 Afghan boxer arrested in connection with death of Scottish woman in Greece 6 Bono, Eddie Vedder and Hozier among mourners at Glen Hansard's funeral 7 Man 'driven insane' by noise admits killing fish 8 Oil prices fall on hopes Strait of Hormuz could reopen 9 Ed Sheeran fined for failing to insure Aston Martin 10 Surgeon struck off after wrongly connecting organs BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.