Paramount concessions lead UK to approve takeover of Warner Bros | Mergers and acquisitions | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Business Economics Banking Money Markets Project Syndicate B2B Retail Lisa Nandy in Downing Street. The acquisition still faces a big final hurdle in the US. Photograph: Anadolu/Getty View image in fullscreen Lisa Nandy in Downing Street. The acquisition still faces a big final hurdle in the US. Photograph: Anadolu/Getty Mergers and acquisitions Paramount concessions lead UK to approve takeover of Warner Bros Culture secretary Lisa Nandy says she will not intervene in £85bn deal after securing guarantees on Channel 5 Michael Savage Media editor Thu 6 Aug 2026 10.57 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 11.54 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google The UK culture secretary, Lisa Nandy, has said she will not intervene in Paramount’s proposed acquisition of Warner Bros Discovery, removing one of the remaining obstacles to the blockbuster deal. However, Paramount has made significant concessions to secure the UK government’s backing for the $110bn (£85bn) takeover, which will create a global media powerhouse and effectively bolster the influence of Paramount’s CEO, David Ellison. Nandy’s decision to order Britain’s media and competition watchdogs to examine the deal in June came as a shock. However, she has now approved the deal, with conditions attached around protecting UK-based content. The UK’s Competition and Markets Authority has also cleared the deal, which has already been approved by the EU. Under the UK guarantees, Paramount’s Channel 5 will continue to ‌operate as a public service broadcaster until the end of 2034. Channel 5 News will retain its editorial independence and will remain separate from other news operations covered by the merger, CBS News and CNN International. Paramount has agreed that its linear and on-demand services in Britain would retain distinct editorial identities for five years, including its children’s TV content. Nandy’s department also secured a guarantee that the deal would not reduce the number of people commissioning content in Britain, while Channel 5 would continue to back UK-originated content covering drama, factual and entertainment shows. Nandy will meet with Paramount “in the coming weeks” to seek assurances about the deals’ impact on Britain’s wider creative industries. The news means Ellison is a step closer to closing the deal, which would create a group encompassing the Hollywood studios behind film franchises including Superman, Batman and Top Gun, the UK’s Channel 5, the news channel CNN and TNT Sports. The acquisition still faces a big final hurdle before being completed, following a legal challenge by a coalition of US status and writers’ guilds to block it. There are also concerns in the media about the potential impact on the news coverage of Warner’s global news network, CNN. Paramount’s own network, CBS News, has faced job cuts , tensions and claims of political interference to push coverage more in line with Donald Trump’s agenda. Ellison, the son of the tech mogul and Trump ally Larry Ellison, has faced other accusations of attempting to curry favour with the White House as he pursued acquisitions. In a recent essay, however, he denied having a pro-Trump bias . skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Every weekday Sign up to Business Today Get set for the working day – we'll point you to all the business news and analysis you need every morning Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion “I have regularly voted for candidates of both parties,” he wrote. “I hold some views that would be called conservative and others that would be called liberal, just like most Americans.” Responding to the UK government’s decision to clear the deal, Paramount said in a statement: “These clearances recognise that the combination of Paramount and WBD will enhance consumer choice and enable a creative-first company to invest in more projects and bring stories to audiences worldwide.” Ellison and his legal team can now focus on the US lawsuit, which is aimed at blocking the deal on antitrust grounds. A California federal judge has scheduled the trial for March 2027, which represents a costly delay. Paramount soon has to make shareholder payouts, which will continue until the deal is completed. Explore more on these topics Mergers and acquisitions Paramount Pictures Warner Bros Lisa Nandy Competition and Markets Authority Television industry Channel 5 news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story UK watchdog to look at Paramount’s $110bn takeover of Warner Bros Discovery 9 Jun 2026 Warner Bros CEO David Zaslav in line for $700m payout from Paramount deal 17 Mar 2026 Paramount Skydance wins Warner Bros Discovery bid after Netflix walks away from deal 27 Feb 2026 Netflix boss says $83bn Warner Bros takeover will benefit industry 23 Feb 2026 Trump warns Netflix of ‘consequences’ unless it pulls top Democrat from board 22 Feb 2026 Warner Bros gives Paramount seven days to make ‘best and final’ offer 17 Feb 2026 Warner Bros Discovery weighs new sale talks after fresh Paramount offer 16 Feb 2026 Netflix co-CEO grilled by US senators over Warner Bros Discovery merger 3 Feb 2026 Most viewed Most viewed Business Economics Banking Money Markets Project Syndicate B2B Retail News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)