Newcastle appoint Matthias Jaissle: What will new manager bring to club? - BBC Sport BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC Sport Menu Home Football Cricket Formula 1 Rugby U Tennis Golf Cycling Athletics More A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Commonwealth Games Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Mixed Martial Arts Motorsport Netball Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Full Sports A-Z More from Sport England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Feeds Help & FAQs Newcastle United Scores & Fixtures Table Transfers Who Am I? Quiz Ask Me Anything Newcastle appoint Jaissle - what should fans expect? Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Matthias Jaissle has signed a four-year deal with Newcastle United until 2030 By Ciaran Kelly Newcastle United reporter Published 3 hours ago Matthias Jaissle has quite an act to follow at Newcastle United . "It won't be easy to succeed Eddie [Howe]," a source said. Just like Newcastle 's moves to sign young players from the continent, there is an element of risk with this appointment as the club bring in a manager who has never coached in the Premier League before. German Jaissle delivered success in Saudi Arabia and Austria - with Al-Ahli and Red Bull Salzburg respectively - but this will be the first time he has sampled life in one of Europe's top five leagues. He becomes the Premier League's second-youngest current head coach, at 38, and his first competitive game is against Liverpool on Sunday, 23 August. In the statement announcing his appointment on Wednesday, Jaissle said it was an "incredible honour" to become head coach of "one of the biggest clubs in European football". "My teams are built on togetherness, hard work, intensity and a passion to improve every single day," he added. "I believe there is enormous potential within this squad and throughout the football club. "I give my complete commitment and total energy to bringing further success to Newcastle United ." There has been no time to waste since Jaissle arrived at Newcastle 's pre-season training camp in Spain at the weekend. "He will try to understand the culture, what Newcastle means to the community, as soon as possible," added a source. "That's what he will live by." 'He called out anyone who wasn't giving their all' Howe certainly set the standard. The Englishman took charge of a side in relegation trouble, kept them up, then went on to end Newcastle 's long wait for silverware by winning the EFL Cup in 2025 - and also qualified for the Champions League on multiple occasions. However, last season was a bruising one domestically - Newcastle finished in 12th place - and Howe watched Alexander Isak, Sandro Tonali and Anthony Gordon leave within a year. Newcastle are set to lose a fourth key player too, with captain Bruno Guimaraes heading to Arsenal . They need a progressive manager to start a new cycle following Howe's decision to step down - and build on what he did at the peak of his reign. Effectively, Jaissle's remit will be to develop players and outperform clubs with bigger wage bills. And Newcastle 's squad should expect him to be just as demanding as his predecessor in training. "We did lots of small-sided games to keep the intensity high and if someone had not been giving it their all, he called them out on it," said former Salzburg midfielder Zlatko Junuzovic. "He's not afraid to address things head-on." Jaissle has quickly had to get to know a new set of players, but he will encounter a group who are already used to similar principles from their time under Howe, as well as new young signings who are eager to learn. He also brings with him a group of coaches and analysts who will look to quickly get his message across. Al-Ahli defender Merih Demiral knows that better than most. "Looking forward to going to training every day was so important," he added. "They paid great attention to every detail and always made sure we were fully prepared. "Matthias has built a really strong team around him and they played a huge role in our success." Jaissle and his staff will be working with a squad whose average age has dropped significantly this summer. However, the German will still rely on experienced heads such as Dan Burn and Fabian Schar in the dressing room. Jaissle, a former defender with Hoffenheim, was a few months younger than Junuzovic when he took charge of Salzburg in 2021. But he did not shirk in telling the midfielder he would find it difficult playing alongside the younger players in the side. Jaissle challenged Junuzovic to improve and earn his place in the starting line-up, and "kept his word" when he did. "He understands the players' language," the former Austria international said. Why Arsenal are signing Newcastle captain Guimaraes Published 10 hours ago Challenging times ahead for Newcastle - Shearer Published 6 days ago 'He never lost his belief' It is a little telling that Red Bull Salzburg have not won the league since Jaissle departed following his second successive triumph three years ago. The Austrian club have not reached the Champions League knockout stage, either, since doing so for the first time ever under Jaissle in 2022, even if they were ultimately hammered 8-1 on aggregate by Bayern Munich in the last 16. Jaissle went on to show an ability to adapt at Al-Ahli with a different profile of player, winning back-to-back Asian Champions League titles. As much as his aggressive side pressed high, and got the ball forward quickly, they also had solid defensive foundations and no other team conceded fewer goals in the Saudi Pro League last season. Such a balanced approach will be needed if Jaissle is to succeed in the Premier League, which is a different beast altogether, as he will soon find out. But Newcastle 's new boss will certainly back himself. "The best way to describe him is his mentality," said Turkey international Demiral. "Even if we were losing 2-0 or 3-0, he never lost his belief. He always believed in his players and prepared us with the same mindset in training. "This is one of the main reasons why we managed to come back and win so many matches." It's a very different league, and challenge, but Newcastle will hope it's a sign of things to come. Tactical analysis - how could Jaissle play? By Umir Irfan Football tactics correspondent Jaissle's predecessor Howe had similar principles in terms of building a side around physical intensity, pressing and direct attacks. The German primarily uses a high-pressing 4-4-2 when the opposition are building from the back. Even when his teams are pushed into more of a mid-block, they have shown an impressive understanding of when to step forward and transition into a high press as a collective. Howe's defensive tactics should align well with the Red Bull style of pressing, which could make it easier for the players to buy into Jaissle's methods. What Howe was criticised for towards the end of his tenure was a supposed lack of adaptability. After joining Al-Ahli, Jaissle inherited a mosaic of superstars and less experienced Saudi players - a wildly different challenge from coaching a Red Bull club with consistency and understanding in style from youth level through to the first team. While he retained his coaching principles, he recognised the need to platform players according to their individual strengths within that framework. The Premier League is constantly evolving, with coaches designing new counter-measures to tactics that appear to work from one week to the next. If Jaissle is going to succeed in the Premier League, that agility will be a vital asset. Related topics Football Premier League Newcastle United Shorts Previous Next 0:46 Chelsea's16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli. 00:00:46, play video Chelsea's16-year-old breakout star Mahdi Nicoll-Jazuli 1:15 How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? 00:01:15, play video How might Newcastle play under new boss Jaissle? 0:36 Salah mobbed by fans on arrival for Trabzonspor move. 00:00:36, play video Salah mobbed by fans on arrival for Trabzonspor move 0:38 What is the 'Bra-gate' controversy in cycling? 00:00:38, play video What is the 'Bra-gate' controversy in cycling? 0:30 Wilkinson's Welsh language progress. 00:00:30, play video Wilkinson's Welsh language progress 1:00 What has happened to Kulusevski? 00:01:00, play video What has happened to Kulusevski? 0:23 Why Monga chose Man City over Arsenal. 00:00:23, play video Why Monga chose Man City over Arsenal 0:44 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo. 00:00:44, play video 'Just joking' added to England World Cup win tattoo 0:50 Goodburn to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea. 00:00:50, play video Goodburn to meet PM after brain cancer funding plea Top stories Fifa admits mistakes but Infantino remains president Published 29 minutes ago Newcastle appoint Jaissle - what should fans expect? Published 3 hours ago Sloppy Arsenal suffer in Real Betis friendly loss Elsewhere on the BBC Superman 1978: The classic superhero blockbuster What did we learn from D4vd's preliminary hearing? Follow police investigations from the 999 call to conviction Undressing the hidden history of underwear Elsewhere in Sport Newcastle appoint Jaissle - what should fans expect? Lines to be first British woman in America's Cup team for 90 years How Buttler became T20 cricket's run-scoring GOAT Why Liverpool are ready to make Barcola third £100m signing No WSL experience but who is new Man Utd boss Olid? What happens next with Rashford and Man Utd? Why £1m-a-season deal will be hard for Pollock and Hearn to find A youngster to watch at each Premier League club this season Runs and records galore as Sunrisers beat Spirit. Video Runs and records galore as Sunrisers beat Spirit Why we are still waiting for the 'Newey effect' - F1 Q&A The summer that changed Welsh football The ex-sandwich maker who cycles to Champions League games How Mumbai Indians takeover has affected MI London & Surrey 'No guarantees' - joyful Glasgow cannot banish all Commonwealth doubts Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.