Weather tracker: Austria breaks heat records as Japan braces for Typhoon Dolphin | Environment | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Soaring temperatures near Lake Zicksee, Austria. Photograph: Leonhard Föger/Reuters View image in fullscreen Soaring temperatures near Lake Zicksee, Austria. Photograph: Leonhard Föger/Reuters Weather tracker Environment Analysis Weather tracker: Austria breaks heat records as Japan braces for Typhoon Dolphin Ed Walton for MetDesk Soaring temperatures continue to sweep parts of Europe, while Okinawa faces powerful winds and storm surges Europe live – latest updates Mon 3 Aug 2026 04.16 EDT Last modified on Mon 3 Aug 2026 12.11 EDT Share Unbearable, record-breaking heat has dominated the summer of 2026 across much of Europe. New records were set in central Europe last week, with Wieselburg in Austria registering a new July peak of 40.3C (104.5F). This is particularly significant as it is just 0.2C behind the all-time high, set in the August of 2003. However, not all of the northern hemisphere has experienced extreme heat and aridity. Vancouver recorded its wettest July since 2016 and the third wettest since 2008, with 33.6mm of rain. While that total may not appear exceptional, it is only a touch above the 1991-2020 climate average, highlighting how unusually dry July has been in the Canadian city over the past decade. Meanwhile, Typhoon Dolphin has continued to barrel westwards across the Pacific Ocean towards Japan and Taiwan . It became the fifth category 5 tropical cyclone of 2026 and ranks third for wind speed, behind only typhoons Bavi and Sinlaku. Dolphin reached maximum sustained wind speeds of 175mph on Thursday, with a central pressure of 910mb. The storm intensified rapidly over just 36 hours. On 27 July, it was a tropical storm, however, exceptionally warm sea temperatures of about 30C fuelled its swift transformation into a super typhoon. Another contributing factor was its unusually compact structure, with hurricane-force winds extending only 52 miles from the centre. By comparison, a powerful typhoon such as Dolphin would typically have a hurricane-force wind radius of about 100 miles. As of Monday, Dolphin has been downgraded to a category 3 storm, with sustained wind speeds of 125mph. As it continues westwards towards the island of Okinawa, it is forecast to weaken further and make landfall as a category 1 or 2 typhoon. However, wind speeds of 80-100mph are still expected to affect the archipelago and remain strong enough to cause widespread damage and disruption. skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Weekly Sign up to Down to Earth The planet's most important stories. Get all the week's environment news - the good, the bad and the essential Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion Although the overall wind speed of Dolphin is decreasing, its wind field is forecast to expand as it approaches land, shifting the primary threat from destructive winds to storm surge. Explore more on these topics Environment Weather tracker Japan Austria Taiwan Canada Americas Asia Pacific analysis Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)