Video appears to show Perez Hilton livestream self-harm on TikTok – NBC 6 South Florida Skip to content Main Navigation Search Search for: Local Weather Video On Your Side Investigates Responds Newsletters TV Listings Watch 24/7 Create profile / Log in Dashboard Email preferences Sign out Trending Elections YouTube Hurricane Season 📺Watch News 24/7 Newsletters 🔎 Send a Tip Expand Miami-Dade County Perez Hilton hospitalized after appearing to self-harm on livestream, MDSO says The video, which was streamed on TikTok before the platform pulled it, appeared to show Hilton covered in blood, with visible cuts and holding what appeared to be a knife, NBC News reports. By Julia Bagg and NBC6 • Published August 4, 2026 • Updated on August 5, 2026 at 11:23 pm BOOKMARKER NBC Universal, Inc. Perez Hilton’s family spoke out as the celebrity blogger is recovering in the hospital after a mental health episode. NBC6’s Niko Clemmons reports Celebrity entertainment blogger Perez Hilton was hospitalized after authorities received reports that he livestreamed acts of self-harm on social media on Tuesday night, according to the Miami-Dade Sheriff's Office. The sheriff's office responded to a home in the Westchester neighborhood after receiving "multiple calls regarding an individual who was livestreaming acts of self-harm on social media." Watch NBC6 free wherever you are WATCH HERE The video, which was streamed on TikTok before the platform pulled it, appeared to show Hilton covered in blood, with visible cuts and holding what appeared to be a knife, NBC News reported. In the video, viewers pleaded with him and asked for his phone number so they could alert authorities. Ethan Miller/Getty Images Ethan Miller/Getty Images Perez Hilton attends the grand opening of Caspian's Cocktails & Caviar at Caesars Palace on January 10, 2025 in Las Vegas, Nevada. NBC6 cameras later captured a man inside the residence who appeared to be naked and bloody, before paramedics loaded him into an ambulance and drove away. The sheriff's office said they had spoken with family members, and only one person was inside the home at the time of the incident. Deputies initially released a statement in response to an inquiry about Hilton, but they did not mention the 48-year-old by name. Later, the sheriff's office reported that a person had been "safely recovered" and taken to the hospital. On Wednesday, they confirmed that person was Perez Hilton, whose real name is Mario Lavandeira, and that he was Baker Acted. Local Florida 2 hours ago Miami Beach mayor asks Florida to pause removal of license plate readers; others follow Florida 5 hours ago Man put to death for girl's killing as Florida carries out its 14th execution of the year Deputies responded to a home in Miami-Dade on Tuesday night after receiving multiple calls about a person livestreaming themselves self-harming on social media. NBC6's Julia Bagg reports. Neighbors said they knew a man lived in the home with three children, and that the family had moved in about two months ago, but not that he was a famous blogger. "Many of you have reached out with concern for Perez, and we are incredibly grateful for the overwhelming outpouring of love, support, and prayers," Hilton's team and family said in a statement on his website . "We can confirm that Perez is receiving medical care, and our family’s focus right now is on his well-being." Maria Granadillo said she was on her way home on Tuesday night when deputies stopped her from reaching her house. Her Ring cameras captured part of what happened, including authorities calling for "Mario" to come out. "I was like there's no way, there's only a guy that's called Mario next door, that's the guy they're trying to get out," neighbor Maria Granadillo said. "And then the police kind of like withdrew, they waited in the corner and then like about midnight an ambulance came in." Celebrity blogger Perez Hilton is recovering in the hospital. NBC6 has confirmed Hilton was Baker Acted following a disturbing livestream on social media that appeared to show him covered in blood and harming himself. NBC6's Lorena Inclan reports Authorities responded and said they were de-escalating the situation and using crisis intervention techniques. Granadillo said she hopes "that he gets better, that he finds the help he needs, [and] that all of the family heals." Hilton's agent and the CEO of Golden Artists Entertainment Dante Rusciolelli released a statement Wednesday afternoon. "At this time, we do not have any additional confirmed information to share regarding Perez Hilton’s condition. Our focus remains on Perez’s health, recovery, and the privacy of both him and his family during this incredibly difficult time," the statement said. "We are grateful for the outpouring of concern and support from fans, friends, and members of the media. We respectfully ask that everyone continue to honor his privacy while he receives the care he needs." If you or someone you know is in crisis, call or text 988 to reach the Suicide and Crisis Lifeline or chat live at 988lifeline.org . You can also visit SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources for additional support. This article tagged under: Miami-Dade County on now South Florida Live Trending Stories Broward County Woman gets life in prison without parole in 2022 killing of romantic rival in Tamarac Florida 163 missing kids, including dozens in Miami, found during Operation Statewide Shield Cuba Reports of Raúl Castro's critical health raise questions about Cuba's future Florida Miami Beach mayor asks Florida to pause removal of license plate readers; others follow Florida Pair abused 4 kids while holding them captive in truck for over 6 years, Florida AG says Weather Forecast Facebook Instagram TikTok Youtube About NBC 6 Our News Standards Submit Tips for Investigations Newsletters Contact Us Xfinity: Internet, TV, streaming, more WTVJ Public Inspection File WTVJ Accessibility WTVJ Employment Information FCC Applications Terms of Service Advertise with us Send Feedback Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Ad Choices Copyright © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. All rights reserved Close Menu Create profile / Log in Dashboard Search for: Newsletters News NBC 6 News Local US & World Weather Weather alerts Hurricane Season On Your Side Investigates Responds Submit a tip PolitiFact Impact With Jackie Nespral Voices With Jawan Strader South Florida Live Entertainment Traffic Sports Community About NBC 6 Our News Standards Submit a Consumer Complaint Submit Photos and Video Contests TV Schedule Our Apps Newsletters TV Schedule Cozi TV Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok Youtube Contact Us