Lake Powell Reaches Lowest Level Since 1980s Skip to main content Toggle navigation ☰ Join Newsletter Signup Log in About Mission National Parks Traveler Policies National Parks Traveler Funding Staff And Contributors Privacy Policy Testimonials National Park Service Electronic Library Topics Special Reports 5th Annual Threatened And Endangered Parks Package 4th Annual Threatened and Endangered Parks Package Invasive Species in the Parks Traveler's View Terms Of Use NPS Legal Your National Parks Explore Your National Park System Trails I've Hiked Fireside Reads eLibrary Supporters Blue Ridge Parkway Foundation Friends of Acadia Advertise/Underwrite Podcasts Enter your keywords Threatened & Endangered Species Project Threatened & Endangered Species Project National Parks Traveler Podcast Episode 353 | Threatened and Endangered Species Intro Built To Last | The Enduring Legacy Of The Endangered Species Act Are Birds In Paradise Doomed? Altitude And Time Running Out National Parks Traveler Podcast Episode 356 | The Fate of the Honeycreeper Ecosystems At Risk If This Pine Tree Vanishes From Rockies National Parks Traveler Podcast Episode 358 | Kemp's Ridley Sea Turtles National Parks Traveler Podcast Episode 359 | Saving Whitebark Pines Hawai’i Park Seeks To Reverse Plunge In “Amazing” Plant’s Numbers National Parks Traveler Podcast Episode 362 | Revisiting the ESA The Most Imperiled Terrestrial Ecosystem On The Planet Interior Secretary Summons ESA "God Squad" For Gulf Of Mexico Drilling Ruling The Night: Bat Species At Risk National Parks Traveler Podcast Episode 364 | Bats in the Parks Florida Panthers, An Endangered Species In Limbo Manatees | A Threatened Species At A Crossroads The God Squad: Too Much Power? Beleaguered Owl Hanging On By A Feather Patience In The Pines ESA Success Stories Special Report | Florida Reef Traveler Special Report | Florida's Ailing Reef What Is The Florida Reef? National Parks Traveler Podcast Episode 360 | Florida Coral Reef Rescue Key Species Of The Florida Reef Florida's Reef, Highly Valued And Harshly Impacted A Rocky Mountain Refuge For Florida Reef Corals National Parks Traveler Podcast Episode 368 | Florida’s Ailing Reef Working To Restore Biscayne Bay Musings From The Florida Reef Tract Three Florida Reef Corals "Functionally Extinct" Due To Marine Heat Waves Florida’s Vital Coral Nursery Industry The Politics Of Protecting The Florida Reef An Obligation To Protect The Florida Reef Enter your keywords Home » Lake Powell Reaches Lowest Level Since 1980s Lake Powell Reaches Lowest Level Since 1980s March 4, 2022 When this photo was taken in May 2021, Lake Powell's elevation was about 138 feet below full pool. The white band shows where the lake level had been. Today it's down more than 170 feet/Kurt Repanshek Lake Powell at Glen Canyon National Recreation Area hasn't been this low since the early 1980s, and the country's second-largest reservoir is expected to shrink even more before the spring snowmelt begins. According to U.S. Bureau of Reclamation authorities, who operate the hydrogenerating station inside the Glen Canyon Dam, on Wednesday the lake surface was at an elevation of 3526.63 feet, or 173 feet below full pool, and just 36 feet above the spot at which there won't be enough water to drive that generating station. That power plant provides electricity for an estimated 3 million people. The outlook is not promising. According to the Bureau of Reclamation , rivers that flow into Lake Powell are running not quite 55 percent of normal for this time of year. The 28 reservoirs upstream of Lake Powell, meanwhile, are less than 63 percent full, the agency adds. And the water that has flowed into Lake Powell since the "water year" started October 1 has amounted to 1.6-million acre feet, or not quite 60 percent of average. From another perspective, the water that has flowed out of Lake Powell and down into Grand Canyon National Park has exceeded inflows into the reservoir by 1.2-million acre feet. As of March 2, the lake was less than a quarter full. And if you look up into the mountains that hold the snow that melts and sends, in theory, its water down to Lake Powell, the snowpack is at 89 percent of average for the date. Another problem, however, is that the ongoing drought that started around 2000 has left Colorado River Basin soils so dry that they're sucking up a lot of that snowmelt, leaving less to flow down the streams and rivers to Lake Powell. At Glen Canyon NRA, officials have been working with consultants to figure out a way to extend boat ramps far enough to reach the water so the upcoming summer season will offer a place for houseboaters, anglers, and others to cool off and relax and, along the way, power the economies of surrounding towns. Stories about: Glen Canyon National Recreation Area Grand Canyon National Park Lake Mead National Recreation Area Rainbow Bridge National Monument Story Categories: Parks in the News A copy of National Parks Traveler's financial statements may be obtained by sending a stamped, self-addressed envelope to: National Parks Traveler, P.O. Box 980452, Park City, Utah 84098. National Parks Traveler was formed in the state of Utah for the purpose of informing and educating about national parks and protected areas. Residents of the following states may obtain a copy of our financial and additional information as stated below: Florida: A COPY OF THE OFFICIAL REGISTRATION AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION FOR NATIONAL PARKS TRAVELER, (REGISTRATION NO. CH 51659), MAY BE OBTAINED FROM THE DIVISION OF CONSUMER SERVICES BY CALLING 800-435-7352 OR VISITING THEIR WEBSITE . REGISTRATION DOES NOT IMPLY ENDORSEMENT, APPROVAL, OR RECOMMENDATION BY THE STATE. Georgia: A full and fair description of the programs and financial statement summary of National Parks Traveler is available upon request at the office and phone number indicated above. Maryland: Documents and information submitted under the Maryland Solicitations Act are also available, for the cost of postage and copies, from the Secretary of State, State House, Annapolis, MD 21401 (410-974-5534). North Carolina: Financial information about this organization and a copy of its license are available from the State Solicitation Licensing Branch at 888-830-4989 or 919-807-2214. The license is not an endorsement by the State. Pennsylvania: The official registration and financial information of National Parks Traveler may be obtained from the Pennsylvania Department of State by calling 800-732-0999. Registration does not imply endorsement. Virginia: Financial statements are available from the Virginia Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, 102 Governor Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219. Washington: National Parks Traveler is registered with Washington State’s Charities Program as required by law and additional information is available by calling 800-332-4483 or visiting www.sos.wa.gov/charities , or on file at Charities Division, Office of the Secretary of State, State of Washington, Olympia, WA 98504. Comments Permalink Submitted by Bill Stock on March 4, 2022 - 9:20am. I houseboated the lake when it was 2' from full, with heavy snowpack melt from Colorado, accessed all marinas, Rainbow Arch , Kayaked, pulled 16' boat to access narrow area up canyons, 3 weeks of beautyful breezes , starlit skies , no cell service, docking beaches every night with 75' of rope & anchor to maintain 50 houseboat. Bathed in lake while floating in innertubes, using Soap on a Rope around neck to secure soap. Memories. bootstrap INN Member The easiest way to explore RV-friendly National Park campgrounds. Here’s the definitive guide to National Park System campgrounds where RVers can park their rigs. Our app is packed with RVing- specific details on more than 250 campgrounds in more than 70 national parks. You’ll also find stories about RVing in the parks, tips helpful if you’ve just recently become an RVer, and useful planning suggestions. FREE for iPhones and Android phones. Thanks for your support National Parks Traveler is a 501(c) (3) nonprofit media organization. Privacy Policy Terms of Use 2005-2024 National Parks Traveler Contact us Close