In North Carolina's Outer Banks, a community is spending millions to save its economy from collapsing into the ocean - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War UFO Files World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds CBS Evening News | Full Episodes On the Road Watch CBS News CBS Evening News In North Carolina's Outer Banks, a community is spending millions to save its economy from collapsing into the ocean By Skyler Henry Skyler Henry Correspondent Skyler Henry is a CBS News correspondent based in Atlanta. Henry was most recently a correspondent for CBS Newspath in Washington. Read Full Bio Skyler Henry August 7, 2026 / 7:56 PM EDT / CBS News Add CBS News on Google In Buxton, a village on one of the barrier islands of North Carolina's Outer Banks, it's go time for Dare County Manager Bobby Outten and his crew in their efforts to restore several miles of eroded shoreline . "We have a huge economy that we need to protect, and the only reason anybody comes to Dare County is to either fish, buy a boat or go to the beach," Outten told CBS News. His crew is in the process of taking 2 million cubic yards of offshore sand from the ocean bottom and pumping it onto a 3-mile stretch of badly weathered and eroded beaches. "So we're building a beach," Outten, who also serves as the Dare County attorney, explained. "Our beaches and our dunes are our levee system. That's what keeps the water out from damaging our infrastructure, protecting tourism, infrastructure." In the fall of 2025, several homes on this stretch of beach in Buxton were swept into the Atlantic as the region was pummeled by powerful tides and flooding from multiple hurricanes . At the time, ocean waves were crashing 70 to 100 yards inland. It's an issue worsened by climate change that has plagued the area for the last six years. Since 2020, 32 homes in the Cape Hatteras National Seashore area north of Buxton have collapsed into the Atlantic Ocean, according to numbers from the National Park Service. Residents hope this new Dare County-funded project saves this area and protects any sort of future developments from new storms. The shoreline will be widened up to 75 feet in certain stretches and will create a buffer for roads and surrounding homes. This is the area's third attempt at a beach nourishment project. It is also the most expensive for county taxpayers, with a price tag of $50 million. "If you allow the ocean to continue to erode, it takes out the highway, it takes out the power lines, the water lines, the internet, all the things that you take for granted," Outten said. This work won't last forever, though. In about five years, crews will have to return and do it again, a costly and temporary bandage on a never-ending cycle. More from CBS News Cyclospora outbreak tied to lettuce now linked to 15 states, CDC says Trump announces $180 million to boost mining education Don Lemon seeks dismissal of criminal charges, claims vindictive prosecution How much can debt forgiveness save on a $20,000 balance this August? Go deeper with The Free Press The Sea Geeks Are Ready for World War III Welcome to the Age of Slopulism In: North Carolina Erosion © 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Outer Banks homes face erosion, rising sea levels North Carolina communities scramble to protect shorelines as erosion eats away at homes 02:04 North Carolina communities scramble to protect shorelines as erosion eats away at homes (02:04) Cyclospora outbreak tied to lettuce now linked to 15 states, CDC says Trump announces $180 million to boost mining education Don Lemon seeks dismissal of criminal charges, claims vindictive prosecution The Sea Geeks Are Ready for World War III Featured SpaceX Rocket Collision Iran War Latest NFL Training Camp Injuries MLB Trade Deadline Tracker Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue