The Best Hyaluronic Acid Serums and Creams for Hydrated Skin 2026 IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Top stories Owala’s back-to-school sale is here The best keratosis pilaris treatments for smoother skin Packing your skin care and makeup is so much easier with this toiletry bag How often should you change and wash your towels REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gearpost, REI has a secret outlet with up to 70% off summer outdoor gear Walmart has up to 65% off back-to-school must-haves 35+ college-exclusive back-to-school deals Skip to Content About Us Wellness All Wellness Skin Care Hair Care Oral Care Health Fitness Sleep Home All Home Small appliances Bedding & bath Cleaning Vacuums Office Gardening Kitchen All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech All Tech Electronics Personal Tech TVs Audio Computers Cameras Pets All Pets Dogs Cats Pet Care Lifestyle All Lifestyle Sports Travel Parenting Apparel Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping Subscribe Share About Us Wellness Main Menu All Wellness Skin Care Wellness All Skin Care Hair Care Wellness All Hair Care Oral Care Wellness All Oral Care Health Wellness All Health Fitness Wellness All Fitness Sleep Wellness All Sleep Home Main Menu All Home Small appliances Home All Small appliances Bedding & bath Home All Bedding & bath Cleaning Home All Cleaning Vacuums Home All Vacuums Office Home All Office Gardening Kitchen Main Menu All Kitchen Appliances Kitchen gadgets Cookware Food & drink Tech Main Menu All Tech Electronics Tech All Electronics Personal Tech Tech All Personal Tech TVs Tech All TVs Audio Tech All Audio Computers Cameras Pets Main Menu All Pets Dogs Pets All Dogs Cats Pets All Cats Pet Care Pets All Pet Care Lifestyle Main Menu All Lifestyle Sports Travel Lifestyle All Travel Parenting Apparel Lifestyle All Apparel Footwear Lifestyle All Footwear Outdoors Hobbies Talking Shop Select 100 Best Deals & Sales Main Menu All Deals & Sales Deal of the Day Most Popular This Month Sales This Week New & Notable What to Buy This Month Top Stories Main Menu All Top Stories For What It's Worth: NBC Selected's Livecast Gift Guides Main Menu All Gift Guides 100 Best Gifts of All Time Best Beauty Gifts Best Gifts for New Parents Best Gifts for Teachers Eco-Friendly and Sustainable Gifts Back-to-School Shopping More from NBC Sign up for the Selected Newsletter Check out Shop TODAY NBC News TODAY About Help Careers Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information CA Notice Terms Of Service NBC News Sitemap Advertise Ad Choices Follow Selected © 2026 NBCNEWS.COM NBC Selected independently determines what we cover and recommend. When you click on or buy through our links, we earn a commission. Learn more . Skin Care All the glow, none of the grease — the best hyaluronic acid products we've tested Experts say it can keep your skin hydrated, especially when using a potentially irritating product like retinol. Updated Aug. 4, 2026, 1:54 PM EDT Morgan Greenwald Ashley Morris Associate SEO Reporter Skip to table of contents Hyaluronic acid is a great hydrator for all skin types, dermatologists say. Kara Birnbaum / NBC In this article Our top picks The best hyaluronic acid products of 2026 How I picked the best hyaluronic acid products How to shop for hyaluronic acid products Frequently asked questions Meet our dermatologists Why trust NBC Selected? See 4 More If you have chronically dry skin , you’re probably familiar with hyaluronic acid, an ingredient that draws water into the skin to hydrate it. Though it’s especially useful for dry skin, it’s a great hydrator for all skin types, says Dr. Mary Stevenson , assistant professor of dermatology at NYU Langone Health. “We don’t have a lot of products like that,” she says. I spoke with dermatologists about how to use hyaluronic acid and gathered a list of their product recommendations (and NBC Selected favorites) to try. Selected. Our top picks Best serum The Ordinary Hyaluronic Acid 2% + B5 Serum $7.92 $9.90 Amazon Learn more Best non-greasy ​​Cerave Hyaluronic Acid Serum $undefined $22.99 Ulta Learn more Best essence Cosrx Hyaluronic Acid Hydra Power Essence $undefined $25.00 Ulta Learn more Best with SPF CeraVe AM Facial Moisturizing Lotion $14.97 $19.99 Amazon Learn more See 1 More Related selected selected Dry skin glossary: Breaking down all the ingredients you need to know about Want more from NBC Selected? Sign up for our newsletter, The Selection, and shop smarter. The best hyaluronic acid products of 2026 Best serum The Ordinary Hyaluronic Acid 2% + B5 Serum $ 7.92 $ 9.90 Amazon Now 20% off $ 7.92 $ 9.90 Ulta Now 20% off $ 9.90 Target What to know What we like Good for sensitive skin Hydrating Very lightweight feel Something to note Feels sticky at first For a lightweight hyaluronic acid serum, board-certified dermatologist Dr. Barry Goldman likes this option from The Ordinary. It’s fragrance-, alcohol- and oil-free, which is beneficial for those with sensitive skin, experts say. “I’ve been using this hyaluronic acid serum every day for about six months and my skin soaks it right up. It’s super lightweight and dries quickly, and has a slight cooling effect, which I love,” says NBC Selected reporter Zoe Malin . “Since I’ve started using it, I’ve noticed that my skin dries out less often, and looks more hydrated overall.” The Ordinary’s hyaluronic acid serum has a dropper, which makes it easy to apply on your hands or directly on your face. Courtesy Zoe Malin Best non-greasy ​​Cerave Hyaluronic Acid Serum $ 22.99 Ulta $ 23.99 CVS Photo What to know What we like Soothes flaky skin Pump packaging Has hydrating ceramides Something to note Can cause pilling Former NBC page Ella Morrissey, who struggles with dry skin, loves this Cerave serum . She applies one to two pumps on her face and neck at night before bed, and wakes up with smooth, hydrated skin that doesn’t look too shiny, she says. “Especially in the winter, I don’t have those red flaky dry spot flare ups as much anymore after using this product,” says Morrissey. Best essence Cosrx Hyaluronic Acid Hydra Power Essence $ 25.00 Ulta What to know What we like Absorbs quickly Not greasy or sticky Layers with other skin care Something to note Nothing to note at this time Cosrx’s Snail Mucin line is arguably its most popular, but if NBC Selected associate SEO reporter Ashley Morris could only use one hydrating product from the brand, it would be this essence, which she’s been using for years . It’s made from a highly concentrated natural hyaluronic acid, according to the brand, and is hydrating enough to work in both summer and winter. Morris likes massaging it into her skin twice daily — it has a lightweight feel that absorbs quickly, and it blends well with her other products. Plus, one bottle lasts for months, says Morris. Morris before and after applying the Cosrx hyaluronic acid essence. Ashley Morris, NBC Select reporter Best toner Haruharu Wonder Black Rice Hyaluronic Toner $ 13.99 $ 21.00 Amazon Now 33% off $ 13.99 Target What to know What we like Improves skin texture Safe for sensitive skin Something to note Might cause breakouts This Haruharu toner is a favorite of former NBC Selected senior social media and newsletter editor Julie Huang, who loves that it has no added alcohol or fragrance. “It’s lightweight, so it’s perfect for summer months, and sinks into my skin in the most calming way,” says Huang. “My face is always extra glowy and bouncy afterwards.” Best with SPF CeraVe AM Facial Moisturizing Lotion $ 14.97 $ 19.99 Amazon Now 25% off $ 15.99 Ulta $ 17.99 Walgreens What to know What we like Has SPF Absorbs quickly and easily Pump packaging Something to note May feel a bit greasy This CeraVe moisturizer is formulated with broad-spectrum SPF 30 to help shield your skin from sun damage while still keeping a lightweight consistency, according to the brand. The noncomedogenic lotion has ceramides to help restore the skin’s barrier and niacinamide, a form of vitamin B3 that can calm irritated skin, according to the brand. “Like most people, I’ve heard that you are supposed to use sunscreen everyday, regardless of the weather. This CeraVe AM lotion makes that as painless as possible for me,” says former NBC Selected reporter Harry Rabinowitz , who has used the lotion for over three years. “Each pump is just enough lotion to cover my entire face comfortably, not too much, not too little.” Plus, the lotion feels more like a thick, hydrating moisturizer than a sunscreen you might keep nearby for beach day, says Rabinowitz. Best moisturizer Selfmade Corrective Experience Comfort Cream $ 30.00 Thirteen Lune What to know What we like Safe for sensitive skin Lightweight gel Absorbs easily Something to note Has a scent This Selfmade gel moisturizer is an NBC Selected Wellness Awards winner and a favorite among our NBC Selected editors. It works as an occlusive, which creates a barrier on the skin and locks in moisture, according to the brand. Malin says the moisturizer’s gel-like consistency feels very lightweight on her skin, and NBC Selected updates editor Mili Godio appreciates how it keeps her skin soft and hydrated for hours after applying, even during dry winter months. Best splurge SkinCeuticals Hyaluronic Acid Intensifier $ 120.00 Dermstore What to know What we like Firms skin Lightweight consistency Works for all skin types Something to note Expensive This SkinCeuticals serum has been a staple of NBC Selected editorial director Lauren Swanson ‘s routine for years now. “I became obsessed with Skinceuticals back during my beauty editor days,” says Swanson. “This serum is great on its own or in addition to other hydrators.” She says it also helped keep her skin moisturized while on Accutane . Best oil-free Vichy Mineral 89 Booster Hyaluronic Acid Face Serum $ 22.49 $ 29.99 Amazon Now 25% off $ 22.49 $ 29.99 Ulta Now 25% off $ 19.99 CVS What to know What we like Safe for sensitive skin Oil-free Won't clog pores Something to note Can feel sticky at first Goldman recommends this Vichy serum because it has mineral water to help hydrate the skin. This oil- and fragrance-free serum is noncomedogenic (which means it won’t clog pores) and has a non-greasy formula that you can wear comfortably on its own or underneath your favorite moisturizer, according to the brand. It has the National Eczema Association seal of approval, so it’s suitable for sensitive skin. Best cooling Peter Thomas Roth Water Drench Hyaluronic Cloud Mask Hydrating Gel $ 55.00 Dermstore What to know What we like Can store in fridge Lightweight gel Large packaging Something to note Expensive Former NBC Selected editorial projects manager Rebecca Rodriguez uses this Peter Thomas Roth gel mask twice a day and says it works wonders on her skin. It has a hyaluronic acid complex and Pentavitin (a plant extract) to moisturize, plus vitamin E and aloe to hydrate dry skin. Rodriguez recommends storing the gel in the fridge “for an added cooling effect.” (If you prefer a serum, Peter Thomas Roth makes one , too.) Best cream TATCHA The Dewy Skin Cream $ 74.00 Sephora $ 74.00 Ulta $ 74.00 Tatcha What to know What we like Not greasy or sticky Comes with applicator Reduces fine lines Something to note Expensive This Tatcha cream combines antioxidant ingredients with deep moisture in an elegant, non-greasy formula, says Dr. Annie Chiu , a board-certified cosmetic and general dermatologist. The noncomedogenic cream uses a mixture of Okinawa algae blend and hyaluronic acid to capture water and hydrate the skin, according to the brand. Best for body Osea Hyaluronic Acid Body Serum $ 48.00 Ulta $ 48.00 Nordstorm What to know What we like Lightweight Fragrance-free Something to note Expensive This body serum is a favorite of former NBC Selected editorial intern Kalohe Danbara. “I hate applying lotion after showering because it feels sticky and uncomfortable, so I switched to this body serum. My skin drinks it up like water,” she says. Danbara loves how it leaves her skin feeling soft, smooth and hydrated without leaving behind a greasy residue. It’s unscented and has a gentle formula, making it ideal for those with sensitive skin, according to the brand. Best exfoliating Medicube Toner Pads Zero Pore Pad Mild 2.0 $ 18.90 Amazon $ 21.00 Ulta What to know What we like Safe for sensitive skin Lightweight Something to note Bulky packaging It might seem counterintuitive to reach for an exfoliating toner when looking for hydrating skin care, but these Medicube toner pads are gentle and hydrating while also working away at blackheads and enlarged pores. Rodriguez uses these pads every night and loves that they give her smoother skin without causing irritation. “The pores on my nose and chin are far less visible the morning after using these,” says Danbara. “Most toners I’ve used in the past are stripping and drying, but this one left my skin super hydrated.” Best mask Youth to the People Superberry Hydrate + Glow Dream Night Cream + Mask $ 53.00 Amazon $ 53.00 Sephora What to know What we like Creamy texture Brightening ingredients Non-greasy formula Something to note Lightly scented Expensive You can use this as both a 15-minute mask or an overnight moisturizer , according to the brand. It has squalane and hyaluronic acid to hydrate your skin and vitamin C to even out texture. Morris loves using it as a night cream because of its thick, rich texture that keeps her skin soft and hydrated until the morning. Best fast-absorbing Bubble Water Slide Hydration Boosting Serum $ 17.00 Bubble Skincare $ 17.00 Ulta What to know What we like Layers with other skin care Lightweight Fragrance-free Something to note May be sticky at first NBC Selected senior editor Nikki Brown recommends this hydrating serum for people who want a short yet effective skin care routine. “What I love most about this serum is that it absorbs crazy fast — I just hate making the process longer than it needs to be,“ she says. Lately, she’s been using this serum to combat the dryness of New York winters and although she hasn’t been using it for very long, she says she can already tell it’s helping to boost the effectiveness of her moisturizer because her skin feels normal again, and it looks moisturized too. Best soothing Ilia The Base Face Milk $ 58.00 ILIA $ 58.00 Sephora $ 58.00 Nordstrom What to know What we like Reduces redness and texture Thick, milky consistency Does not feel heavy/sticky Something to note Dropper packaging Expensive This lightweight moisturizer from Ilia is designed to have a calming formula and a milky, serum-like texture, according to the brand. Formulated with lipids, fatty acids and antioxidant extracts, it also addresses uneven texture and redness, according to Ilia, and you can use it both day and night. Ilia’s Base Face Milk has a runny, liquid texture that hydrates the skin and doubles as a moisturizer. Courtesy Lindsay Schneider Best luxury serum Lancôme Genifique Ultimate Serum $ 65.00 Sephora $ 65.00 Ulta $ 65.00 Nordstorm What to know What we like Addresses multiple issues Works for all skin types Lightweight texture Something to note Expensive Former NBC Selected senior editor Lindsay Schneider tried this Lancôme serum after being sent a bottle by the brand, and says it “feels heavenly” on her skin. The serum is lightweight (“not in a sticky way,” she says) and helps to reduce signs of damage by addressing uneven skin tone, fine lines and texture using hyaluronic acid and licorice extract, according to the brand. “I’ve been wearing every day in the morning under my moisturizer, but I really love to put it on right after I wash my face or get out of the shower when my skin is so thirsty and really dry,” says Schneider. “It immediately restores some hydration.” Schneider likes using this serum right after washing her face, to help immediately restore moisture to her “thirsty” skin. Courtesy Lindsay Schneider Related selected selected Results with no irritation: the best derm-approved retinol alternatives How I picked the best hyaluronic acid products Hyaluronic acid is generally well-tolerated by most skin types. Experts recommend looking at the following factors to determine the best products with hyaluronic acid: Consistency: Generally speaking, you’ll find hyaluronic acid in lightweight serums, but you’ll also see it in face creams, gels and lotions. Hydrating ingredients: Hyaluronic acid works well with other moisturizing ingredients like ceramides , vitamin E and aloe that offset any dryness or irritation that can come from using harsher ingredients like retinol . Molecular weights: Hyaluronic acid is usually present in products at different molecular weights, which affects how it penetrates the skin. Look for a combination of low and medium molecular weights to help it penetrate both the skin’s surface and lower levels, experts say. Uses: You can use it morning and night and/or alongside retinol as needed. How to shop for hyaluronic acid products Creams and serums are where you’re most likely to find hyaluronic acid. While water-based serums typically have a higher concentration of the active ingredient and are therefore a better option, creams can be great for those who don’t have time to wait for their skin to absorb a serum, experts say. “I think you get the best bang for your buck with a serum just because you’re getting the most concentrated hyaluronic acid with water and it’s going straight into your skin,” says Stevenson. “[But] sometimes you need a one and done deal [and] for those patients, I think a cream is just fine.” Serums typically advertise what percentage of hyaluronic acid is in the product. Anywhere from 1% to 2% is a reasonable concentration, says Stevenson. Some products are formulated with hyaluronic acids at different molecular weights — that’s because “different weights penetrate differently, so you want a combination,” according to Stevenson. “In general, low and medium [molecular weights] penetrate deeper into the lower levels of skin while high molecular weights hydrate the top or surface of the skin,” she says. Frequently asked questions What is hyaluronic acid? Hyaluronic acid is a naturally occurring chemical your body produces that cushions and moisturizes the skin. It’s found in our skin, eyes, joints and connective tissue, says Stevenson. It acts as a humectant, drawing in water like a sponge, she says. Despite its name, hyaluronic acid should work for virtually all skin types since it isn’t an actual acid. “It’s not like salicylic acid or some of the other acids that can be more exfoliating or abrasive on our skin,” says Stevenson. What are the benefits of hyaluronic acid? Hyaluronic acid is good for anyone who wants to plump and hydrate the skin, according to experts. It’s also great when used in conjunction with more drying ingredients like retinol . “Hyaluronic acid creams work well with retinol and vitamin C products to decrease the irritation that sometimes occurs,” says Goldman. “Hyaluronic acid matched with a retinol is a match made in heaven.” Though hyaluronic acid gives the skin a healthier and more hydrated appearance, Stevenson says that it isn’t a “permanent fix” for wrinkles and fine lines. “Hyaluronic acid can reduce the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles because it’s basically plumping up the cell,” she says. “It will just kind of add moisture back immediately because it’s holding on to these water molecules around your skin cells. It’s basically like blowing up a float toy.” How should you use hyaluronic acid? Stevenson suggests applying hyaluronic acid before layering an emollient moisturizer (like First Aid Beauty’s Ultra Repair Cream , which has ingredients that bring moisture to the skin) or an occlusive moisturizer like Vaseline , which creates a physical barrier to lock in hydration. Should you decide to use hyaluronic acid in conjunction with a product like retinol, Stevenson recommends sandwiching the retinol between the hyaluronic acid and a moisturizer to limit irritation. There’s no limitation to how many times you can use hyaluronic acid in a day since it acts as a great hydrator, says Stevenson. She warns that some people may experience a reaction if they’re using hyaluronic acid products in conjunction with harsh ingredients like essential oils or fragrances. “People with eczema , rosacea or extremely sensitive skin might want to apply a product either behind the ear or on their inner wrist for a few days in a row before putting it all over their face,” she says. Meet our dermatologists At NBC Selected, we work with experts who have specialized knowledge and authority based on relevant training and/or experience. We also take steps to ensure that all expert advice and recommendations are made independently and with no undisclosed financial conflicts of interest. Dr. Barry Goldman is a board-certified dermatologist and founder of Goldman Dermatology in New York City. He is also a clinical instructor at Cornell NY Presbyterian Hospital. Dr. Mary Stevenson is a board-certified dermatologist and associate professor at NYU Langone Health’s Department of Dermatology. She is a dermatological surgeon who specializes in Mohs surgery, as well as laser and cosmetic procedures. Dr. Annie Chiu is a board-certified cosmetic and general dermatologist. She is the founder of The Derm Institute in North Redondo Beach, California, and currently serves on the Dermatology staff at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. Why trust NBC Selected? Morgan Greenwald is a former editor for NBC Selected. Ashley Morris is an associate SEO reporter for NBC Selected, covering skin care, wellness, home and kitchen and more. For this story, they spoke to board-certified dermatologists about the best hyaluronic acid products, including product recommendations and advice on how to shop for your own. Catch up on NBC Selected’s in-depth coverage of tech and tools , wellness and more, and follow us on Facebook , Instagram , Twitter and TikTok to stay up to date. Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off Morgan Greenwald Morgan Greenwald is a former senior editor for NBC Selected. All the glow, none of the grease — the best hyaluronic acid products we've tested 25 graduation gifts they may actually like more than cash The best weeding tools to make your hardest garden task (at least slightly) easier Latest articles Ashley Morris Ashley Morris is an associate SEO reporter for NBC Selected. Her expertise is in skin care, wellness and home and kitchen. The best scalp acne shampoos and treatments, according to dermatologists All the glow, none of the grease — the best hyaluronic acid products we've tested The 81+ best new products this month from Hoka, Béis, Sony, Olaplex and more Latest articles Kalohe Danbara contributed . Deal of the Day Bagsmart Travel Toiletry Bag $ 21.59 $ 35.99 Amazon Now 40% off In this article Our top picks The best hyaluronic acid products of 2026 How I picked the best hyaluronic acid products How to shop for hyaluronic acid products Frequently asked questions Meet our dermatologists Why trust NBC Selected? ABOUT CONTACT HELP CAREERS PRIVACY POLICY DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION CA NOTICE TERMS OF SERVICE NBC NEWS SITEMAP AD CHOICES ADVERTISE DEALS & SALES SKIN CARE HEALTH TECH NBCNews.com © 2026 SELECTED | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.