Disney weighs free, ad-supported streaming, says Super Bowl ads sold out Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Media Disney weighs free, ad-supported streaming, says it has sold out Super Bowl ad spots Published Wed, Aug 5 2026 10:41 AM EDT Updated Wed, Aug 5 2026 11:25 AM EDT Lillian Rizzo @Lilliannnn WATCH LIVE Key Points Disney CEO Josh D'Amaro said during an earnings call with investors the company is exploring a free, ad-supported streaming product for consumers. The consideration comes as advertising has taken a bigger role in making streaming profitable and growing engagement and subscriptions. Disney also said Wednesday it was "pleased" with "upfront" advertising commitments and had sold out inventory for the Super Bowl that will air on ABC and ESPN in February. In this article DIS Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Rita Ferro, Disney's president of global advertising, at Disney Upfront 2026. Courtesy: Disney Co. Disney could soon make a bigger play into advertising. During an earnings call with investors on Wednesday, CEO Josh D'Amaro said the company is exploring a free, ad-supported streaming product for consumers. "We see it as a way to expand our reach to a customer segment that's more price-sensitive, and expanding our reach ... is one of our strategic priorities," D'Amaro said. He added that unlike many of Disney's ad-supported competitors, the company has more ad inventory that "would actually help us accelerate our ad revenue growth." "A free offering could help us drive top of funnel Disney+ subscriber growth," D'Amaro said, though he fell short of making any official announcements. Business Insider earlier reported that Disney was considering a free offering. Free, ad-supported streaming services like Fox Corp.'s Tubi, Paramount Skydance's Pluto TV and Roku's The Roku Channel have been garnering more viewers as the cost of streaming has risen across various services. Cheaper, ad-supported plans for major streaming players like Netflix and Disney+ have also become increasingly important to attract more customers and boost profitability. Advertising for live sports and streaming has remained strong, even in a more competitive environment. Disney also announced Wednesday that it has sold out ad spots for the upcoming Super Bowl, which will air on the company's ABC and ESPN networks in February. The Super Bowl has long beckoned the highest ad rates of any live TV programming. This year, 30-second spots have reportedly been sold for $9 million . Read more about media and advertising At TV upfronts, AI is in and corporate shuffles are reshaping the lineup Disney is poised to ramp its already booming advertising business. Rita Ferro is behind the push Netflix’s advertising strategy shift is starting to pay off Free streaming service Tubi is rivaling major players for viewership. Here’s how it’s winning Disney Chief Financial Officer Hugh Johnston told investors on Wednesday that Disney was "pleased" with commitments from its recent "upfront" negotiations and noted volume commitments were up double-digits compared to last year. "Upfronts" are the annual slate of content pitches to advertisers. Johnston said other marquee live events, such as the College Football National Championship, the Grammys and Oscars helped to drive ad sales. "Overall, the current tone I would have is to characterize the market is healthy in sports," Johnston said on Wednesday's call, "but at the same time, competitive in streaming, especially given the growth of supply in the marketplace." Johnston added the increased streaming supply has led to pricing pressure for ads. Disney reported in Wednesday's quarterly earnings that lower ad rates weighed on revenue for its overall entertainment unit. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by