Illinois teen in clown outfit charged with murder of 78-year-old man IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content Politics U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline Subscribe Share & Save — Subscriber Hub Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture & Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos Sudoku NBC Selected NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now Business in America More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Sports Business Health SHOPPING Tipline U.S. news Illinois teen in clown outfit charged with murder of 78-year-old man The state’s attorney is seeking to prosecute the teen as an adult in the death of John Wesley Allen, according to a court filing. Listen to this article with a free profile 00:00 00:00 Share Add NBC News to Google Aug. 6, 2026, 9:46 PM EDT / Updated Aug. 6, 2026, 9:48 PM EDT By David K. Li , Phil Helsel and Joe Kottke A teenager accused of stabbing a 78-year-old man to death while dressed as a clown was charged with murder Thursday, and the prosecutor wants to try him as an adult, Illinois officials said. John Wesley Allen was killed Monday in East St. Louis. He “was waiting at a bus stop when he was stabbed in a random attack by a suspect wearing a clown outfit,” Illinois State Police said. The 15-year-old suspect, who was arrested after the stabbing, was charged Thursday with a count of first-degree murder, state police said in a statement . The teenager had “the intent to kill or do great bodily harm” to Allen, who was stabbed “about the body with a knife, thereby causing” his death, according to a court filing by St. Clair County Assistant State’s Attorney Derek Smith. The state’s attorney is seeking to prosecute the teen as an adult on a first-degree murder charge, according to the court document. East St. Louis police were called for a report of a body in a roadway around 10 p.m. Monday and found Allen, of Jennings, Missouri, dead, state police said. The 15-year-old was located at a residence and arrested Monday, state police said. State police have said that video of the suspect wearing a clown costume is circulating and that they are seeking to obtain all video in the case. Doorbell camera video obtained by NBC affiliate KSDK of St. Louis showed a person whose face was partly covered looking into the camera and saying, “I have a gift for you.” Neighbors told the station they saw a person going door to door with a large knife Monday night. It was not immediately clear Thursday whether the teenager, who remained in custody Thursday, had a defense lawyer to speak on his behalf. East St. Louis is across the Mississippi River from St. Louis, Missouri. Share Add NBC News to Google David K. Li Senior Breaking News Reporter Phil Helsel Phil Helsel is a reporter for NBC News. Joe Kottke Joe Kottke is an assignment editor at NBC News covering breaking news across the Americas, including politics, immigration, crime and severe weather. Rebecca Cohen and Samantha Murray contributed . About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Subscribe Advertise NBC Selected © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC