A look at 'Operation Country Roads,' West Virginia's ICE operation : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics A look at 'Operation Country Roads,' West Virginia's ICE operation Earlier this year ICE arrested 600 immigrants over a two week period. Most migrants had no criminal records and, since then, West Virginia has decided to not hold ICE detainees in their jails. A look at West Virginia post Operation Country Roads. National A look at 'Operation Country Roads,' West Virginia's ICE operation August 6, 2026 4:40 PM ET Heard on All Things Considered Sergio Martínez-Beltrán A look at West Virginia after last year's massive ICE operation Listen · 4:33 4-Minute Listen Playlist Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5863509/nx-s1-9878283" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Transcript Earlier this year ICE arrested 600 immigrants over a two week period. Most migrants had no criminal records and, since then, West Virginia has decided to not hold ICE detainees in their jails. A look at West Virginia post Operation Country Roads. Sponsor Message Transcript AILSA CHANG, HOST: So far since President Trump returned to office, ICE has arrested more than 600,000 people. And last month, arrests by ICE reached a record high of 1,400 per day. The agency is leaning on tactics that it used earlier this year in West Virginia. NPR's Sergio Martínez-Beltrán reports on Operation Country Roads. SERGIO MARTÍNEZ-BELTRÁN, BYLINE: Last winter, Staci Tighe was struggling through an illness. Visits from her friend Mohamed Guezoui kept her going. STACI TIGHE: Mo came by every day to check - hey, you need anything? Can I do anything to help? He wanted to support me through that illness. And then, you know, he got taken. MARTÍNEZ-BELTRÁN: Mo, as she calls him, was born in Algeria and moved to the U.S. after marrying an American citizen. That marriage fell apart, leaving Mo stranded in Appalachia with few connections until he met Staci at karaoke. Late last year, Mo was working his shift at the King Kabab down the street from her house when three masked ICE officers came in and took him away. He was eventually deported. TIGHE: Mo was probably one of the first people to get detained. And then the balls just started rolling. MARTÍNEZ-BELTRÁN: More and more immigrants started getting detained in West Virginia. DHS, then still run by Kristi Noem, launched an enforcement search in the red state that eventually picked up around 600 people. The agency dubbed it Operation Country Roads after the John Denver anthem. (SOUNDBITE OF SONG, "TAKE ME HOME, COUNTRY ROADS") JOHN DENVER: (Singing) Take me home to the place I belong. MARTÍNEZ-BELTRÁN: Those proud lyrics sound twisted now to Tighe. TIGHE: It's insulting because "Country Roads" song is a welcoming song. It's the place I belong. And they're kicking people out. MARTÍNEZ-BELTRÁN: Operation Country Roads went mostly under the radar, partially because it happened during the much more violent and publicized Operation Metro Surge in Minneapolis and because it relied much more on local law enforcement to carry out the arrests. DHS did not respond directly to questions about the West Virginia operation, but current DHS Secretary Markwayne Mullin endorsed this tactic at his Senate confirmation hearing. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) MARKWAYNE MULLIN: My goal in six months is that we're not in the lead story every single day. My goal is for people to understand we're out there, we're protecting them and we're working with them. MARTÍNEZ-BELTRÁN: This tactic and partnership with local law enforcement have been successful, according to data from DHS. In July, ICE daily arrests reached a record high of 1,400 nationally. Now, that doesn't mean all of those arrested will be deported. And this is where we look again at West Virginia, where many of these proceedings are falling apart in court. Kyle Vass with the ACLU of West Virginia says attorneys have been challenging detentions through a key legal resource. KYLE VASS: We're seeing really successful habeas petition filings. Sometimes people are being released the same day that they're picked up by ICE. MARTÍNEZ-BELTRÁN: The federal courts in West Virginia have also pushed back. Four judges there have become a big hurdle for Trump's plans. They have called the administration's tactics wrong and, quote, "an assault on the constitutional order." UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #1: Hi. UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #2: Hi. UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #1: Are you by chance here for the immigration hearing? MARTÍNEZ-BELTRÁN: On a windy day in Clarksburg, dozens of people are trying to get into the federal courthouse. UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #1: Well, let's go in and see if we can actually do anything. MARTÍNEZ-BELTRÁN: Most, if not all, of them are here to show support for Erick Cristal Cumes, a man who came to the U.S. illegally and was detained on his job at a popular Mexican restaurant. His U.S. citizen wife, Lauren Cristal, is inside the courtroom, stoic, holding a tissue in one hand, hoping to catch a glimpse of her husband who is attending via video call from a detention center in a different state. LAUREN CRISTAL: I think part of you always wants to believe it's not going to happen to you too. You know, not me, not my husband. MARTÍNEZ-BELTRÁN: I talked to Lauren outside right after the hearing. Erick was not released that day. CRISTAL: This is real pain that I'm going through and that many other people are going through. MARTÍNEZ-BELTRÁN: Life will not return to normal for the newlyweds. Just before airing this story, we got in touch with Lauren again. Erick's asylum application was denied. He decided not to appeal the decision. Instead, he's awaiting a date for his deportation. Sergio Martínez-Beltrán, NPR News, West Virginia. (SOUNDBITE OF SHADRACH'S "BROWN BIRD") Copyright © 2026 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. Accuracy and availability of NPR transcripts may vary. Transcript text may be revised to correct errors or match updates to audio. Audio on npr.org may be edited after its original broadcast or publication. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record. Facebook Flipboard Email More Stories From NPR Trump's Terms Trump's third check-up at Walter Reed raises more questions about his health : Trump's Terms News Frontier Airlines plane strikes and kills pedestrian National Trump's third check-up at Walter Reed raises more questions about his health Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after Politics Rep. James Walkinshaw on funding for ICE and the future of immigration enforcement Planet Money The missing men of the American marriage market More Stories From NPR Family Amid cost of living stress, many parents are supporting children well into adulthood National When tragedy strikes, America's wildland firefighters ask, was it 'somebody that we loved?' The NPR news quiz Who or what is 'taking a step back from visibility'? The quiz knows Sources & Methods Did Iran hack U.S. water systems? / Cyberwarfare abroad / Ukraine’s air defense gap National Trump signs 2 immigration actions to curb 'birth tourism,' limit birthright citizenship Politics The park service says Trump's arch would obstruct historic sites. Could it be moved? Sponsor Message Popular on NPR.org Middle East conflict Iran aims to ban U.S. and Israeli ships from Strait of Hormuz and charge others a toll Healthcare Hospital staff said he was faking it and released him. He died from an overdose soon after The Ripple Effect Why Andy Cohen is a Deadhead for life Politics Senate Homeland Security committee votes to hold Fauci in contempt of Congress Education Trump administration moves to deregulate Head Start, opening door for sweeping change The Indicator from Planet Money How ending TPS is squeezing workers, businesses and (soon) consumers NPR Editors' Picks Africa Besieged Sudanese city faces relentless drone strikes and risk of mass atrocities, U.N. warns Asia Student kills at least 6 in a shooting at a high school in Thailand, authorities say Technology Court orders Instagram and Facebook's Meta to pay $567M to address kids' mental health online Research News Sticky or slippery? Snails can change their slime to meet the moment Author Interviews Death is everywhere in the desert — it's where Claire Vaye Watkins feels most alive Sports European nations say World Cup boycott is still on, keeping FIFA's Infantino in limbo Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices