Demis Hassabis’ new Google DeepMind role explained Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Opinion Opinion: Demis Hassabis’ new role exposes Google’s AI balancing act Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 9:15 AM EDT Arjun Kharpal @/in/arjunkharpal/ @ArjunKharpal WATCH LIVE Key Points Demis Hassabis is moving away from Google DeepMind’s day-to-day operations to focus on the AGI strategy, scientific research and Isomorphic Labs. The shift highlights the tension between Hassabis’ long-term scientific ambitions and Google’s need to commercialize, monetize and scale its AI technology. Google is under pressure to keep pace with OpenAI, Anthropic and other global rivals while justifying its heavy investment in AI infrastructure. In this article GOOGL Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 7:13 07:13 Google's AI reshuffle explained: what it means for DeepMind Squawk Box Europe Demis Hassabis is one of the defining figures of the AI era. Google recognized his potential early, buying DeepMind just four years after he founded it. What once began as a small London-based company now sits at the heart of Google's fight to lead in artificial intelligence, as the company races to compete with a growing field of global rivals including OpenAI and Anthropic. But a leadership shakeup announced on Wednesday , which saw Hassabis step back from being CEO to become chair of Google DeepMind and parent company Alphabet 's chief scientist leave, concerned investors and the share price dropped following the announcement. I have covered DeepMind for more than a decade and recently sat down with Hassabis for an exclusive interview. What may have come as a surprise to many, to me, feels like a natural progression. But the move also exposes the tension at the center of Google's AI strategy: Hassabis wants to use AI to transform science, while Google needs to commercialize, monetize and scale the technology fast enough to justify the billions it is spending. Hassabis' scientific quest Hassabis has been very vocal about his goals with AI. In our interview on CNBC's podcast "The Tech Download" that was recorded in December, Hassabis said he spent his whole career on AI because it will eventually become "the ultimate tool for science." Over the years, under Hassabis' leadership, DeepMind has made some significant breakthroughs. One of those achievements was AlphaGo , a computer system that took on the best player in the world at the ancient Asian board game Go and won. Another is AlphaFold, an AI software that can predict protein structure folding, which is key for understanding diseases and drug discovery. Hassabis told me none of this would have been possible without Google's backing and the "amount of compute that they could bring to play," referring to the tech giant's ample computing power driven by its own chips. The DeepMind co-founder has been instrumental in pushing the science from within DeepMind at Google. He has also pursued artificial general intelligence, or AGI — AI that can match human capabilities across most cognitive tasks. Hassabis on Wednesday said he believes AGI is "close at hand" in a blog post on Wednesday accompanying the news of his new role. watch now VIDEO 52:35 52:35 The man behind Google's AI machine: An interview with DeepMind's Demis Hassabis The Tech Download Hassabis said his motivation for handing over day-to-day operations is to work on strategic and global AGI matters, advise his successor, the new senior vice president of Google DeepMind, Koray Kavukcuoglu, and dedicate time to Isomorphic Labs, a company he co-founded that is dedicated to AI drug discovery. The move from the company's co-founder "isn't out of character," said Sebastian Mallaby, who wrote "The Infinity Machine," about Hassabis and DeepMind. "Demis cared about safety enough that he sold DeepMind to Google, not to Facebook, even though Facebook offered more money. He cared enough about safety that he fought a three-year battle with Alphabet to get external oversight over DeepMind's AI deployment," Mallaby wrote on X on Wednesday. "This next chapter of his career is a return to that side of his work." 'Ferocious' competition and commercialization push While scientific work has continued at Google DeepMind, the reality of the current competitive environment is very different. Google's parent Alphabet is planning to spend up to $205 billion this year at a time when investors are scrutinizing Big Tech's capital expenditure. The company is also facing intense competition from OpenAI, Anthropic, hyperscalers and Chinese players. Hassabis said the competitive environment was "ferocious" during our December interview. That signaled to me that, while Google remains supportive of DeepMind's scientific endeavours, perhaps that new level of competition is driving more of a focus on commercialization and monetization of its AI, as well as keeping up, on a technological level, with its rivals. The groundwork was already being laid. Hassabis told me he was talking to Google CEO Sundar Pichai nearly every day about "strategic things" while keeping the long-term goals of AGI in focus as well. This allowed Google to ship product faster compared to what they saw as a slower pace than their competitors. Google DeepMind Chair and Co-Founder Demis Hassabis being interviewed by CNBC's Arjun Kharpal. CNBC The new organizational structure will likely look to continue that division of operations but with deeper integration. There was one more telling comment from Hassabis during our interview: his response to a question about whether the pursuit of AGI should be slowed down. "It's a very complex geopolitical and corporate system that we're in ... there are many companies trying to build this. There are also many nations trying to build it. And there's a sort of race dynamic, which ideally wouldn't be there," Hassabis said. "So in an ideal case, this would be a scientific endeavour, and ... each step would be carefully considered. But unfortunately ... the real world isn't like that, and we have to kind of be pragmatic about where we are." Hassabis went on to say that as DeepMind pushes towards more advanced AI, it is trying to "be as responsible as possible." His comments hit to the heart of the changes we have seen — there is an intense "race" that Alphabet wants to lead, which might not sync up with where Hassabis wants to put his future efforts. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by