US revokes Brazil ambassador’s visa in escalation of diplomatic feud | US foreign policy | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Maria Luiza Ribeiro Viotti has not been expelled but if she were to leave the US she would have to reapply for a visa, according to the state department. Photograph: Wolfgang Kumm/DPA/AFP/Getty Images View image in fullscreen Maria Luiza Ribeiro Viotti has not been expelled but if she were to leave the US she would have to reapply for a visa, according to the state department. Photograph: Wolfgang Kumm/DPA/AFP/Getty Images US foreign policy US revokes Brazil ambassador’s visa in escalation of diplomatic feud Move is retaliation for Lula’s government refusal to approve Trump’s nominee for ambassador in Brasília David Smith Washington bureau chief Tue 4 Aug 2026 21.41 EDT Last modified on Tue 4 Aug 2026 21.42 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Donald Trump’s administration has revoked the visa of Brazil’s ambassador to the US in a sharp escalation of a diplomatic feud with the country’s president, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva. The US state department said Maria Luiza Ribeiro Viotti ’s visa had been cancelled in retaliation for Brazil’s refusal to approve Trump’s nominee for ambassador in Brasília and its decision last month to deny visas to two US diplomats seeking to visit ahead of an October election. The Trump administration stopped short of expelling Viotti, a former senior United Nations official. But Washington warned that further diplomatic action remains possible if Brasília continues to withhold its approval for would-be ambassador Daniel Perez , a Florida Republican and close ally of the US secretary of state, Marco Rubio. Lula says Brazil will not be treated like ‘tinpot country’ after US designates gangs as terrorists Read more “We communicated continually with the Brazilian government for weeks and have given the Brazilian government every opportunity to do the right thing, yet they have continually delayed and obfuscated,” a state department spokesperson said. The ambassador’s visa could be restored if Brazil accepts Perez’s appointment. “This is a reciprocal action,” the spokesperson said. “Should the ambassador leave the country, she would need to reapply for a visa.” The dispute has become entangled with Brazil’s increasingly bitter election campaign, in which Lula, 80, is seeking a fourth, non-consecutive term against Senator Flávio Bolsonaro , son of former president Jair Bolsonaro, and a close political ally of Trump. Brasília swiftly condemned the US action as part of a deliberate campaign to influence the election. Lula’s office said: “Today’s decision is not an isolated incident. It is part of a deliberate escalation of hostile measures against Brazil, motivated by ideological reasons.” Brazil also accused the US of breaching diplomatic norms by announcing Perez’s nomination before seeking Brasília’s consent. The Brazilian government said its consideration of the appointment was still under way, and that it had been made clear no decision would be taken before the first round of the election , on 4 October. The Trump administration argues that Brazil has no right to interfere with the president’s choice of US ambassador to the country. “President Trump has the right to determine who represents the American people and interests around the world,” the state department said. “We reject any effort by foreign countries to interfere in our domestic processes.” The latest confrontation follows Brazil’s refusal last month to issue visas to Riley Barnes, assistant secretary of state for democracy, human rights and labour, and one of his senior aides. The US officials had planned to visit Brasília from 27 to 30 July for meetings with government officials, religious leaders and others about election integrity, religious freedom and freedom of expression. Washington described the trip as routine, and rejected Brazilian claims that it was intended to interfere in the election. “Any insinuation of a ‘ploy’ to undermine a democratic nation’s election is a baseless lie,” the state department said at the time. Brasília has stood by its decision, saying the officials intended to cast doubt on the integrity of Brazil’s electronic voting system in what it called an “unacceptable attempt to interfere in the national political process”. The row is particularly sensitive because Jair Bolsonaro and his supporters have spent years alleging, without evidence, that Brazil’s electronic voting system is vulnerable to fraud. He has been barred from standing for office and was convicted over a plot to overturn his defeat in the 2022 election. The diplomatic confrontation is the latest in a series of clashes between Trump and Lula , whose governments have sharply diverged over Latin American politics, Venezuela, Cuba and the role of the US in the region. Trump has repeatedly intervened in political contests across Latin America, while Lula has made national sovereignty a central theme of his campaign. The Brazilian president has blamed Rubio for some of the administration’s actions against his government, although he has sought to avoid a direct personal confrontation with Trump, and has said the two men got on well when they first met. Economic pressure has added to the tensions. The Trump administration has imposed tariffs of up to 37.5% on thousands of Brazilian exports, citing what it says are unfair trade practices and failures to prevent forced labour. Lula’s government has rejected the allegations, and accused Trump’s administration of trying to help Bolsonaro’s political family. The US has also classified Brazil’s two biggest drug-trafficking organisations as foreign terrorist organisations, a move opposed by Lula’s government. Yet the state department insists that it still wants to restore a normal relationship with Brasília. “We want to be back in a situation where we have a normal, productive, transparent relationship with our colleagues,” a senior US official said. Explore more on these topics US foreign policy US politics Brazil Donald Trump Americas Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)