Hadrian hits $8 billion as defense tech spending craze endures Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu AI Effect AI at Work AI Insights AI Impact AI Events AI Age Hadrian valued at nearly $8 billion after fresh funding as money pours into defense tech Published Thu, Aug 6 2026 5:54 AM EDT Updated 2 Hours Ago Samantha Subin @samantha_subin WATCH LIVE Key Points Hadrian raised nearly $1.4 billion in new funding at a $7.9 billion valuation. Defense tech startups are benefiting from President Donald Trump's plan to upgrade the U.S. military. Hadrian CEO Chris Power said the fresh funds will allow it to invest in its workforce and its Opus software platform. watch now VIDEO 4:27 04:27 Hadrian CEO Chris Power: AI powered factories can rebuild American manufacturing Morning Call Riding a wave of enthusiasm for defense tech, manufacturing startup Hadrian said on Thursday that it has closed its latest round of funding at a $7.9 billion valuation, more than quadruple where investors valued the company in January. Hadrian, which builds advanced factories for defense and aerospace companies and agencies, raised nearly $1.4 billion in a round led by Baillie Gifford, J.P. Morgan Strategic Investment Group, and a number of others, including Washington Harbour Partners. "It enables us to make massive investments to scale our workforce, our software platform Opus that powers our factories, and frankly, get ahead of the massive amounts of production challenges the country has in areas like submarines, munitions, the drone industrial base," CEO Chris Power told CNBC's Morgan Brennan on "Morning Call" on Thursday. Power said the company's Opus software is being used by the Army and Navy, and the company will be announcing other defense primes soon. "With physical AI sweeping the physical economy, which is 100 times larger than the digital economy, everyone's going to need to rebase their software to adapt and compete in this new world," Power told CNBC. Hadrian is the latest in a series of high-profile defense funding rounds, fueled by President Donald Trump's push to reindustrialize the U.S. military and scale a robust manufacturing base. Trump is seeking to spend an unprecedented $1.5 trillion on defense as geopolitical tensions heighten the need for new weapons and spur calls to reduce U.S dependence on expensive missile systems. Shield AI, whose technology powers drones, raised money in March at a $12.7 billion valuation, and that month autonomous ship maker Saronic, whose technology was used in Iran , was valued at $9.25 billion in a new funding round. Anduril doubled its valuation two months later to over $60 billion. Last year, Hadrian raised $260 million , with funding from Peter Thiel's Founders Fund, to build a new factory and bolster naval defense capabilities. Read more CNBC tech news SpaceX revenue jumps 92% and AI costs soar in first earnings report since IPO NJ files antitrust suit against Amazon, alleging it unlawfully wielded power over delivery contractors Palantir stock skyrockets on 'otherworldly' commercial revenue — here's what's driving the demand How the 'Baby iPhone' and an Apple supplier leak explain China's recent supply chain moves WATCH: Startup Hadrian raises $260 million to expand its AI-powered factories to meet soaring demand watch now VIDEO 13:51 13:51 Startup Hadrian raises $260 million to expand its AI-powered factories to meet soaring demand News Videos Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. More In AI Age 'AI Kill Switch' bill needs to be passed this year amid ongoing rogue agent hacks, Rep. Lieu says CJ Haddad 8 min ago Google is expanding its AI empire — and losing the people who built it MacKenzie Sigalos 6 hours ago Meta debuts first AI coding agent to take on Anthropic and OpenAI Jonathan Vanian Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by