Trump says Exxon and Chevron made 'too much money' during Iran conflict Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Energy Trump says Exxon and Chevron made 'too much money' off high oil prices during Iran conflict: 'I don't like it' Published Mon, Aug 3 2026 2:32 PM EDT Updated Tue, Aug 4 2026 7:41 AM EDT Spencer Kimball @spencekimball WATCH LIVE Key Points Exxon and Chevron reported windfall profits for the second quarter on elevated crude oil prices due to the Iran war. President Donald Trump said the oil majors have made "too much money" during the conflict. "They're going to give some of that back to the public and they better cut the retail price, the consumer price," Trump said. In this article @CL.1 Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 3:52 03:52 Oil fundamentals look terrible despite current futures prices, says Kpler's Matt Smith Power Lunch President Donald Trump said Monday that ExxonMobil and Chevron made "too much money" on rising crude oil prices due to the Iran war. "They're making too much money based on a shortage," Trump told reporters at the White House. "I don't like it." Exxon and Chevron on Friday reported windfall profits for the second quarter. Chevron's earnings soared nearly 400% to $12 billion compared with $2.5 billion in the same period last year. Exxon's profits more than doubled to $14.5 billion compared with $7.1 billion in the year-ago period. "Chevron, too much money. ExxonMobil, too much money," Trump said. "They're going to give some of that back to the public and they better cut the retail price, the consumer price." CNBC has reached out to Exxon and Chevron for comment. U.S. crude oil prices have gained about 20% since the U.S. and Israel attacked Iran on Feb. 28. Tehran has retaliated by trying to choke oil exports through the Strait of Hormuz, triggering the largest supply disruption in history. U.S. oil futures had an average closing price of around $92 per barrel from April through June, about 27% higher than the first quarter. Gasoline prices, meanwhile, averaged about $4.10 per gallon nationwide on Monday, nearly 40% higher compared with the $2.98 per gallon that drivers paid on Feb. 27 before the war started, according to data from AAA . Chevron's shares were down nearly 2% while Exxon traded slightly lower after Trump's comments. The oil majors' stocks were already under pressure Monday as crude prices fell about 5% on hopes that U.S.-Iran talks might prevent further escalation. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by