New books in August: Richard Russo, Liane Moriarty, Rachel Cusk : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Play Live Radio Hourly News Listen Live My Playlist Open Navigation Menu Newsletters Sign In Personalize Your Experience NPR Shop Get NPR+ Donate Local Station NPR Network Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Sign In Personalize Your Experience Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics New books in August: Richard Russo, Liane Moriarty, Rachel Cusk This month brings riveting novels about dogs, Hollywood stars, small towns and characters with bigger woes than just the sweltering summer heat and humidity. Special Series The Book Ahead Our weekly peek at what's publishing Review 13 new books in August will get you through the dog days of summer August 4, 2026 9:34 AM ET By Colin Dwyer NPR Since the days of the ancients , the dog days of summer have promised heatwaves, bug bites and quantities of sweat no antiperspirant can contain. For once, why not spare yourself its indignities? There are more than enough new book releases in August to keep readers contentedly antisocial and entertained until the humidity breaks. This month brings riveting novels about dogs, stars (the Hollywood kind), small towns and characters with bigger woes than just sweat stains. Sponsor Message Scribner Etna by Paul Yoon Like a certain hero of Greek myth and big-screen blockbuster , the Etna of Yoon's title is the veteran of a catastrophic war, scarred in body and mind, dogged in pursuit of an improbable homecoming. Only, unlike Odysseus, Yoon's hero and narrator is, quite literally, a dog. And the book bearing his name is no ancient tome but a slim, spare novel set in an unsettlingly familiar landscape. Don't let the book's length mislead you, though: Etna's odyssey also deserves the epithet "epic," and the characters who populate it have lived on in my mind long past the book's final line. Purchase Book Etna by Paul Yoon Buy Featured Book Title Etna By Paul Yoon Your purchase helps support NPR programming. How? Find at Your Library Amazon Independent Bookstores Random House Sunrise by Téa Obreht Obreht's fourth novel finds her again treading new ground. After setting her wildly popular debut The Tiger's Wife in a Balkans suffused with myth and magic, the author turned in subsequent books to the Old West and a city redolent of New York. This time, she weaves a characteristically ambitious plot from three narratives revolving on the same mysterious spot in the Great Plains – albeit in different eras, ranging from today(ish) to the early 20th century, when charismatic traveler-cum-local hero Anton Vargas sets the whole mystery in motion. Purchase Book Sunrise by Téa Obreht Buy Featured Book Title Sunrise By Téa Obreht Your purchase helps support NPR programming. How? Amazon Independent Bookstores Find at Your Library Riverhead Books A Tender Age by Chang Rae-Lee I hope you won't cry spoiler if I just come right out and tell you the tender age right now: 10 years old. That's the age of the lead character of Lee's seventh novel; Jeon-Gi is a fumbling initiate into the bewildering mysteries of preadolescence. He narrates the story as an adult, looking back on a tumultuous, and ultimately formative, year that found the son of Korean immigrants navigating his ethnic identity, his first brushes with romance and, perhaps most alarmingly of all, summer camp. Purchase Book A Tender Age by Chang-rae Lee Buy Featured Book Title A Tender Age By Chang-rae Lee Your purchase helps support NPR programming. How? Independent Bookstores Amazon Find at Your Library Knopf Under the Falls by Richard Russo Russo left the old mill town of his childhood long ago but that old mill town never really left Russo. Many of his novels, including the Pulitzer Prize-winning Empire Falls , return to the same kind of small, blue-collar community he grew up in. "My fictional towns have become places where people are hanging on to hope and hanging onto pride, and hanging on by a thread," as Russo observed in a 2007 interview with Morning Edition . The lead of his latest novel, like Russo, managed to get out by making art for a living; unlike Russo, the character's art is music, and a show lures him back to the town he thought he had left behind forever — and maybe should have. Purchase Book Under the Falls by Richard Russo Buy Featured Book Title Under the Falls By Richard Russo Your purchase helps support NPR programming. How? Amazon Independent Bookstores Find at Your Library Sponsor Message Crown Big Little Truths by Liane Moriarty Since publishing Big Little Lies in 2014, Moriarty has written four novels , produced the Emmy-winning miniseries that adapted Lies for HBO, and privately wrote a whole sequel of sorts solely to supply material for the show's second season . Later this month, she catches up at last with Celeste, Jane and Madeline in a novel meant for bookshelves, and finds the three moms a decade removed from the death that forged their bond but grappling with a whole new host of problems – including what appears to be a severed human finger. Purchase Book Big Little Truths by Liane Moriarty Buy Featured Book Title Big Little Truths By Liane Moriarty Your purchase helps support NPR programming. How? Find at Your Library Amazon Independent Bookstores Farrar, Straus and Giroux Life of M by Rachel Cusk I confess I didn't have this one on my bingo card. Cusk, best known for her trilogy of largely plotless novels , has gotten embroiled in a tabloid tempest involving a Hollywood icon precisely because of her new book's plot. The novel depicts the complicated relationship between a writer and a world-famous actress. Regardless of the speculations concerning the author's inspiration — see: the rest of the internet — it's enough just to have a new book from Cusk, whose celebrated Outline Trilogy is "one of the great fictional achievements of the new millennium," according to Fresh Air critic John Powers . Purchase Book Life of M by Rachel Cusk Buy Featured Book Title Life of M By Rachel Cusk Your purchase helps support NPR programming. How? Independent Bookstores Amazon Find at Your Library Soft Skull Makeshift by Peter Rock When we meet Ari, Heiko and CeCe, the young sisters are alone. The only known survivors of a massacre at home and a dimly understood catastrophe abroad, they eke out a quiet, spartan existence together on a small island they call Makeshift, their only company the old shipwrecks littering its reef. But things are never as simple as they seem. What unfolds is a vision of apocalypse with troubling resonance in which the world as we know it ends — not with a bang or a whimper but with few seeming to notice or mourn it at all. Purchase Book Makeshift by Peter Rock Buy Featured Book Title Makeshift By Peter Rock Your purchase helps support NPR programming. How? Amazon Independent Bookstores Find at Your Library Liveright The Rise and Fall of the Artificial State by Jill Lepore Lepore has had an eventful year. In addition to day jobs as Harvard professor and New Yorker staff writer, she has published an authoritative history of the U.S. Constitution, won a Pulitzer Prize for the book , and embraced a role as one of media's go-to guests to make sense of America's 250th birthday . Now, the public intellectual is back with a work of history and criticism in the tradition of Hannah Arendt, tracing the origins, development and disastrous future of what she calls the Artificial State: the increasingly swift abandonment of democracy and other human-centric institutions "for rule by automation, government by machine, and replacement by artificial intelligence." Purchase Book The Rise and Fall of the Artificial State by Jill Lepore Buy Featured Book Title The Rise and Fall of the Artificial State By Jill Lepore Your purchase helps support NPR programming. How? Find at Your Library Amazon Independent Bookstores Sponsor Message Knopf Dèy , by Edwidge Danticat More than 12 years have passed since the publication of Claire of the Sea Light , the last novel the versatile Haitian American author wrote with an adult audience in mind. That's not to say she hasn't been working; in that span, she has produced several collections of essays and short stories — one of which won a National Book Critics Circle Award — as well as works of memoir, criticism and children's literature. Still, it's hard not to celebrate Dèy as a return of sorts for Danticat, who first burst onto the literary scene as a 20-something wunderkind with the 1994 novel Breath, Eyes, Memory . Her latest features a Haitian American immigrant like herself, who survives terrible trauma only to realize it's unlikely ever to leave her. Purchase Book Dèy by Edwidge Danticat Buy Featured Book Title Dèy By Edwidge Danticat Your purchase helps support NPR programming. How? Amazon Independent Bookstores Find at Your Library Bookmarks Few writers manage the range evident in Claudia Rankine's tapestries of poetry, theory, history, memoir, fiction, occasionally even illustration — as in her latest book, Triage (August 4) , which offers a fittingly multifaceted portrait of a long friendship. Emil Wilson's debut graphic novel, The Nightingales (August 4) — about a daughter coming to terms with her family, her father's discomfiting guest and her own place in the world — radiates pathos and humanity in a manner reminiscent of another moving coming-of-age story, Alison Bechdel's seminal memoir, Fun Home . This goes out to all the other inveterate sickos out there who, like me, consider a history of punctuation to be the definition of "beach read." If you do decide to devote any of your remaining summer to Florence Hazrat's engaging On the Mark: From Periods to Interrobangs, How Punctuation Remade the World (August 11) , at least know you won't be alone. Dorthe Nors' Range (August 18) , translated by Caroline Waight, continues Denmark's hot streak of literary exports, with a story of astrophysics and human connection that'll appeal to fans of the similarly reflective, strangely riveting novels by her Danish compatriots Solvej Balle and Helle Helle. nonfiction fiction Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only © 2026 npr Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor Exclusive benefits Give a little. Get a lot. Support mission-driven journalism while getting something great in return. Enjoy bonus content, early access and sponsor-free listening from your favorite NPR podcasts. Get NPR+ Already have NPR+? Sign In Close modal Cookie Settings When you visit our website or app, we store cookies on your browser, use similar tracking and storage technologies such as software development kits, and use information about the device you use to access our site or app (together "cookies"). The information these cookies collect might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site or app work as you expect them to and to provide a more personalized web or app experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site, app, and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship" below. If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or app or third-party sites or apps, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website or app (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary or Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are essential to provide you with services available through the NPR Services and to enable you to use some of their features. For example, these cookies allow NPR to remember your registration information while you are logged in. Local station customization, the NPR Shop, and other interactive features also use cookies. Without these cookies, the services that you have asked for cannot be provided, and we only use these cookies to provide you with those services. Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship You may opt out of the sharing of your information with our sponsorship vendors for delivery of personalized sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites by turning off "Share Data for Targeted Sponsorship." If you opt out, our service providers or vendors may continue to serve you non-personalized, non-"interest-based" sponsorship credits and marketing messages on our website or third-party sites, and those sponsorship credits and marketing message may come with cookies that are used to control how often you encounter those credits and messages, to prevent fraud, and to do aggregate reporting. Performance and Analytics Cookies Switch Label These cookies are used to collect information about traffic to our Services and how users interact with the NPR Services. The information collected includes the number of visitors to the NPR Services, the websites that referred visitors to the NPR Services, the pages that they visited on the NPR Services, what time of day they visited the NPR Services, whether they have visited the NPR Services before, and other similar information. We use this information to help operate the NPR Services more efficiently, to gather broad demographic information and to monitor the level of activity on the NPR Services. Functional Cookies Switch Label These cookies allow our Services to remember choices you make when you use them, such as remembering your Member station preferences and remembering your account details. The purpose of these cookies is to provide you with a more personal experience and to prevent you from having to re-enter your preferences every time you visit the NPR Services. Targeting and Sponsor Cookies Switch Label These cookies track your browsing habits or other information, such as location, to enable us to show sponsorship credits which are more likely to be of interest to you. These cookies use information about your browsing history to group you with other users who have similar interests. Based on that information, and with our permission, we and our sponsors can place cookies to enable us or our sponsors to show sponsorship credits and other messages that we think will be relevant to your interests while you are using third-party services. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices