Jetstar to charge passengers up to $52 to put baggage in overhead lockers | Jetstar | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Business Economics Banking Money Markets Project Syndicate B2B Retail Budget airline Jetstar is changing its carry-on baggage rules to charge for using the overhead locker. Photograph: Yaroslav Astakhov/Alamy View image in fullscreen Budget airline Jetstar is changing its carry-on baggage rules to charge for using the overhead locker. Photograph: Yaroslav Astakhov/Alamy Jetstar Jetstar to charge passengers up to $52 to put baggage in overhead lockers Airline says struggling to find room in overhead lockers on planes a ‘stressful part of the airport experience’ Follow our Australia news live blog for latest updates Get our breaking news email , free app or daily news podcast Guardian staff Tue 4 Aug 2026 17.42 EDT Last modified on Tue 4 Aug 2026 17.43 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Jetstar will charge its passengers up to $52 to put carry-on baggage in the overhead locker, in a major change to the budget airline’s carry-on rules. In a press release on Wednesday morning, the airline announced it would remove the 7kg weight limit for carry-on bags, beginning in February 2027. There will still be size restrictions. The change follows extensive research and feedback from customers and crew who consistently identified having bags weighed at the gate and struggling to find room in overhead lockers as the more stressful parts of the airport experience, the airline said. So how do you get access to the Qantas chairman’s lounge? Alan Joyce has some tips Read more “We know that weighing carry-on bags at the gate can be frustrating for our customers and for our crew,” the CEO of Jetstar, Stephanie Tully, said. Instead, all bookings will include one underseat bag such as a backpack, handbag or laptop bag. Customers who need more carry-on baggage can pay a “Priority Carry-on” fee, which includes a second, larger bag for the overhead locker and the opportunity to be among the first to board. Prices depend on the flight: $25 for Launceston to Sydney, $33 Sydney to Melbourne, and up to $52 for Cairns to Tokyo. Sign up for the Breaking News Australia email The size-based carry-on baggage model is “similar to other leading low-fares carriers around the world”, the airline said. “From February, the main thing customers will need to think about is the size of their carry-on,” Tully said. “By giving customers an underseat bag with the option to add Priority Carry-on, we can make better use of overhead locker space, streamline boarding and help more flights depart on time. “Our new carry-on baggage model provides more choice to customers while helping to keep our fares low. You only pay for what you need – travelling with less means paying less, and you can always add more if you need.” skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | When needed Sign up to Breaking News Australia Get the most important news as it breaks Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion Jetstar will no longer routinely use cabin baggage scales but will still ask customers to keep carry-on bags to 10kg so they can safely lift it themselves. Customers travelling with an infant will be able to take an extra underseat bag for their baby items, at no extra cost. The underseat bags can be up to 40 × 30 × 20cm and overhead bags can be up to 56 × 36 × 23cm. There are no changes to Jetstar’s checked baggage allowance, which remains purchasable for up to 40kg per passenger. Explore more on these topics Jetstar Transport Airline industry news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed Business Economics Banking Money Markets Project Syndicate B2B Retail News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)