Nearly 50 asylum seekers deported under ‘one in one out’ scheme have returned to the UK | Immigration and asylum | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development Migrants clamber on to a UK Border Force vessel. Photograph: Dan Kitwood/Getty View image in fullscreen Migrants clamber on to a UK Border Force vessel. Photograph: Dan Kitwood/Getty Immigration and asylum Nearly 50 asylum seekers deported under ‘one in one out’ scheme have returned to the UK Figure raises questions about deal with France despite UK ministers insisting repeat arrivals will be removed Diane Taylor Thu 6 Aug 2026 09.32 EDT Last modified on Thu 6 Aug 2026 15.02 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google Almost 50 asylum seekers deported using the “one in one out” scheme have been recorded as returning to the UK a second time, the Guardian has learned. In addition to the returnees detained by the Home Office , an unknown number are believed to have arrived in the UK undetected. The scheme, which began last September, allows the UK government to return people arriving on small boats to France , in exchange for a similar number of asylum seekers being brought to the UK legally. The aim is to deter asylum seekers from crossing the Channel in small boats. The Guardian previously revealed that the first asylum seeker who returned to the UK a second time did so last October, a few weeks after being forcibly returned to France. But until now the number of people returning to the UK after forced return was not known. So far this year small boat crossings have reduced by about 43%. This fall is likely to be due to a variety of factors, including bad weather and a reduction in migrants arriving in Europe overall by about a third, as well as efforts by UK and French authorities to disrupt people smugglers. The rationale for sending a proportion of small boat arrivals back to France is that France is a safe country. Asylum seekers who have subsequently returned to the UK have argued that they faced threats from people smugglers in France, or feared being returned by French authorities to their home countries or to countries they passed through. Has the UK government’s strategy on small boat crossings been effective? Read more About 4% of small boat arrivals have been returned to France so far under the “one in one out” deal. According to the Home Office, as of 30 June 2026, there were 1,117 individuals transferred to the UK and 1,087 individuals returned to France under “one in one out”. Officials say the treaty between UK and France has been amended so that second-time returnees to the UK will be once again returned to France. One asylum seeker who returned to the UK a second time in a lorry was eventually returned to France after spending five months in detention. He said he was accommodated for only a few days by French authorities. “There is nowhere for asylum seekers to go and be safe and have peace in Europe ,” he said. “I’m sleeping on the streets of Paris because France wants to send me back to Bulgaria where I was fingerprinted. I was better off in a UK detention centre.” Griff Ferris, of Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants, said: “People fleeing war, persecution and climate destruction are forced to take incredibly dangerous routes to cross the Channel and get to the UK because there is no other way. We must let everyone access the same safe routes to travel that are open to so many, like the daily ferries between Calais and Dover.” skip past newsletter promotion Free newsletter | Every weekday Sign up to First Edition Our morning email breaks down the key stories of the day, telling you what’s happening and why it matters Preview latest Enter your email Sign up after newsletter promotion A Home Office spokesperson said: “Anyone looking to return to the UK after being removed under the UK-France agreement is wasting their time and money – and will be removed again. Under our payment by results returns agreement with France, we have removed more than 1,000 illegal migrants from British soil. “Hundreds of enforcement actions, including arrests, investigations, and sanctions have been pursued against migrant smuggling networks since the election, and we’ve returned or removed almost 70,000 illegal migrants.” France’s interior ministry has been approached for comment. Explore more on these topics Immigration and asylum Home Office Migration France Europe news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Hundreds in Morocco gather near Ceuta border in anxious wait for missing loved ones 2d ago EU chief criticises Spain’s migrant plan after Ceuta crisis meeting 3d ago Stronger EU borders needed after Ceuta crisis, von der Leyen says 4d ago Ceuta leader accuses Morocco over ‘atrocity’ of mass border crossing 4d ago EU to hold urgent meeting of interior ministers on Tuesday over Ceuta crisis 6d ago EU offered Spain support ‘from first moment’ of Ceuta crisis, says von der Leyen, after Sánchez hits out – Europe live 6d ago Why is Ceuta a migration flashpoint and how were so many people able to cross from Morocco? 4d ago At least 57 people die as tens of thousands cross to Spanish enclave of Ceuta from Morocco 7d ago Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)