House passes funding bill, avoiding shutdown ahead of midterm elections - ABC News ABC News Live Video Shows Good Morning America ShopGMA Interest Successfully Added We'll notify you here with news about Turn on desktop notifications for breaking stories about interest? Off On Stream on House passes funding bill, avoiding shutdown ahead of midterm elections House passed a continuing resolution that funds the government through Dec. 11. By John Parkinson September 1, 2026, 4:13 PM 4:22 Birds fly above the dome of the U.S. Capitol as negotiations for the Senate's final votes of the legislative session continue, in Washington, D.C., August 7, 2026. Nathan Howard/Reuters The House, in a bipartisan vote on Tuesday, passed a continuing resolution that funds the government through Dec. 11 -- avoiding a shutdown ahead of the midterm elections in November. The House acted in rare fashion with the vote -- both by taking a bipartisan vote to avert a shutdown and doing so weeks ahead of the Oct. 1 deadline. Members of the House are up for reelection in the fall. Birds fly above the dome of the U.S. Capitol as negotiations for the Senate's final votes of the legislative session continue, in Washington, D.C., August 7, 2026. Nathan Howard/Reuters By a count of 370 to 48, the House cleared the measure -- sending it to President Donald Trump's desk for signature. Just 19 Republicans and 29 Democrats opposed the measure, which initially passed the Senate on Aug. 8. Following the vote, Speaker Mike Johnson celebrated its passage and thumbed his nose at those who questioned or openly doubted its prospects. Related Government shutdown timeline: How senators went from 40-day impasse to sudden deal "House Republicans are in charge here, and we're continuing to do the grown-up thing and make sure we get the job done. And we're happy that we just passed that continuing resolution to fund the government through early December, and then we'll continue through the process after the election," Johnson said. "But there will be no government shutdown. You can thank Republicans for our leadership in getting that done." Popular Reads Lindsay Clancy trial: Jury being sent home for weekend Aug 28 At least 2 dead in Grand Canyon flash flooding as urgent search for missing continues 1 day ago Country music legend Dolly Parton dies at 80 after 'brief battle with cancer' Aug 25 Late last year, there was a 43-day government shutdown -- the longest government shutdown in U.S. history. At issue was an extension of Affordable Care Act subsidies, which Democrats pushed for, but Trump and Republicans said they would not negotiate until the government reopened. Related Topics Government shutdown Congress Sponsored Content by Taboola Popular Reads Lindsay Clancy trial: Jury being sent home for weekend Aug 28 Country music legend Dolly Parton dies at 80 after 'brief battle with cancer' Aug 25 At least 2 dead in Grand Canyon flash flooding as urgent search for missing continues 1 day ago US forces strike 2 Iranian rocket launch sites 2 days ago ABC News Live 24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events ABC News Network Privacy Policy Your US State Privacy Rights Children's Online Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads About Nielsen Measurement Terms of Use Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Contact Us © 2026 ABC News