US adds 162,000 jobs in August, raising Fed rate hike expectations | Business and Economy News | Al Jazeera Skip linksSkip to Content Live Sign up Navigation menu News Show more news sections Africa Asia US & Canada Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East Explained Sport Opinion Video More Show more sections Features Economy Human Rights Climate Crisis Investigations Interactives In Pictures Science & Technology Podcasts Travel Sponsored Content Live Click here to search Sign up Navigation menu Donald Trump Trump, Netanyahu and the Iran question How Iran war fallout may shape US elections A visual guide to redistricting Economy|Business and Economy US adds 162,000 jobs in August, raising Fed rate hike expectations Unemployment rate steady as schools and food services lead the surge in US job growth for August. Listen (4 mins) Save Share US adds 162,000 jobs in August, raising Fed rate hike expectations on social media Share Add Al Jazeera on Google Public schools and food services led the gains in the US job market [File: Mike Blake/Reuters] By Andy Hirschfeld Published On 4 Sep 20264 Sep 2026 The United States economy has added 162,000 jobs in August, with large gains in local government education and food services. The unemployment rate remained unchanged, according to the monthly jobs report released by the US Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) on Friday. Recommended Stories list of 4 items list 1 of 4US labour market sheds jobs in July as labour force participation slumps list 2 of 4CEO pay skyrockets in 2025 amid growing income inequality in the US list 3 of 4US debt hits $40 trillion: Who does Washington owe and why does it matter? list 4 of 4US Fed chair warns inflation progress insufficient, hints at rate hikes end of list The data was well above analysts’ expectations. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast 56,000 gains, the Wall Street Journal forecast 53,000, and Bloomberg had forecast 55,000, following a loss of 23,000 in July. Local government education, or public schools, accounted for nearly 42,000 of the jobs added as the 2026–27 school year begins across much of the US. Teachers typically fall off payrolls during the summer months when school is not in session. Food service jobs also saw large increases, with the sector adding 59,000 jobs for the month of August compared with the month prior. There were also gains in construction, which added 22,000 jobs, and healthcare, which added 12,000. The information sector, which accounts for industries like data processing, web hosting, publishing, broadcasting and telecommunications, fell by 23,000, with notable layoffs at companies including Scripps TV and Zillow, which fall under the umbrella of these industries. The financial activities sector, which accounts for industries like insurance, commercial banking and real estate, dropped by 12,000. Mixed data The data comes in sharp contrast to the ADP national employment report, which tracks private payrolls and found 38,000 jobs added across the US economy. Advertisement Meanwhile, the Labor Department’s Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS) report released on Tuesday revealed job openings were slightly changed, with 7.3 million in July, up from 7.2 million the previous month, while total separations fell to 5.1 million in July from 5.3 million in June. The move in job gains comes ahead of the US Federal Reserve’s policy meeting later this month, where the central bank will vote on interest rates. Amid the job gains, CME Group’s FedWatch, which tracks the likelihood of monetary policy decisions, had a 60 percent chance of a 25 basis point rate increase to 3.75–4.00 percent, up from 49 percent on Thursday. US President Donald Trump was quick to comment on the jobs report and push for rate cuts. “Lower the interest rates because the U.S.A. is a much stronger credit than it was a short time ago!” he said in a post on his social media platform Truth Social. He also ramped up threats to cut off trade with nations that the US has a deficit with if the central bank does not cut rates. Despite a strong jobs report, US markets are trending downwards. The Nasdaq is down 0.2 percent, the Dow Jones Industrial Average is down 0.5 percent, and the S&P 500 is down 0.3 percent amid Trump’s comments. Meanwhile, Canada released its jobs report amid the ongoing trade dispute with the US. The Canadian economy lost 41,700 jobs, according to Statistics Canada, with the unemployment rate holding steady at 6.4 percent. “We expect the economy will continue struggling to create jobs in the near term as mounting headwinds from new US-Canada tariffs, greater uncertainty from a flare-up in the trade war, and the ongoing Iran conflict and a shrinking population weigh on hiring,” Tony Stillo, director of Canada Economics at Oxford Economics, said in a note provided to Al Jazeera. Advertisement About About Show more About Us Code of Ethics Terms and Conditions EU/EEA Regulatory Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences Accessibility Statement Sitemap Work for us Connect Connect Show more Contact Us User Accounts Help Advertise with us Stay Connected Newsletters Channel Finder TV Schedule Podcasts Submit a Tip Paid Partner Content Our Channels Our Channels Show more Al Jazeera Arabic Al Jazeera English Al Jazeera Investigative Unit Al Jazeera Mubasher Al Jazeera Documentary Al Jazeera Balkans AJ+ Our Network Our Network Show more Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Al Jazeera Media Institute Learn Arabic Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights Al Jazeera Forum Al Jazeera Hotel Partners Follow Al Jazeera English: © 2026 Al Jazeera Media Network