 Trump says U.S. has entered deal with Venezuela to take control of 65 billion barrels of oil reserves | KPBS Public Media Search Query Show Search News Local National International Noticias en español Investigations North County South Bay All News Sections Local National International Noticias en español Investigations North County South Bay All News Sections Featured Projects America 250 Border Brief Data Visualization Projects KPBS Families One Small Step Price of San Diego Public Matters San Diego Book Festival America 250 Border Brief Data Visualization Projects KPBS Families One Small Step Price of San Diego Public Matters San Diego Book Festival Arts & Culture Arts & Culture Stories Arts Calendar Black Arts & Culture Museum A Month One Book, One San Diego Weekend Arts Preview Soccer a la Frontera Cinema Junkie The Finest Podcast Freeway Exit Podcast The Parker Edison Project Podcast Port of Entry Podcast Everybody's Doing It With Miss Lolly Podcast Voices del Valle Podcast Arts & Culture Stories Arts Calendar Black Arts & Culture Museum A Month One Book, One San Diego Weekend Arts Preview Soccer a la Frontera Cinema Junkie The Finest Podcast Freeway Exit Podcast The Parker Edison Project Podcast Port of Entry Podcast Everybody's Doing It With Miss Lolly Podcast Voices del Valle Podcast TV & Radio Watch Live Stream KPBS+ Watch KPBS On-Demand KPBS Evening Edition KPBS Midday Edition KPBS News: This Week KPBS Roundtable Kids TV Podcasts Radio Reading Service Radio Shows Radio 89.5 Schedule TV Highlights TV Schedules TV Shows Classical San Diego Schedule Production Services Watch Live Stream KPBS+ Watch KPBS On-Demand KPBS Evening Edition KPBS Midday Edition KPBS News: This Week KPBS Roundtable Kids TV Podcasts Radio Reading Service Radio Shows Radio 89.5 Schedule TV Highlights TV Schedules TV Shows Classical San Diego Schedule Production Services Podcasts One of Their Own Voices del Valle ScreenTime The Finest Rap Diego Free Jane Stripper Energy San Diego News Now KPBS Midday Edition Freeway Exit KPBS Roundtable Cinema Junkie KPBS Investigates Port of Entry The Parker Edison Project Everybody's Doing It With Miss Lolly San Diego Conversations The KPBS Summer Music Series Rad Scientist My First Day Device One of Their Own Voices del Valle ScreenTime The Finest Rap Diego Free Jane Stripper Energy San Diego News Now KPBS Midday Edition Freeway Exit KPBS Roundtable Cinema Junkie KPBS Investigates Port of Entry The Parker Edison Project Everybody's Doing It With Miss Lolly San Diego Conversations The KPBS Summer Music Series Rad Scientist My First Day Device Support KPBS Federal Funding Update Membership Information NPR+ KPBS Passport Producers Club Major Giving Vehicle Donation The Gratitude Collective Planned Giving Giving Property Corporate Support Other Ways to Give Federal Funding Update Membership Information NPR+ KPBS Passport Producers Club Major Giving Vehicle Donation The Gratitude Collective Planned Giving Giving Property Corporate Support Other Ways to Give Events Events Calendar Submit an Event KPBS Rentals Events Calendar Submit an Event KPBS Rentals Help Menu Show Search Search Query Give Now Play Live Radio Next Up: 0:00 0:00 Available On Air Stations On Air Now Playing KPBS Radio Full Schedule On Air Now Playing Classical San Diego Watch Live All Streams News Local National International Noticias en español Investigations North County South Bay All News Sections Local National International Noticias en español Investigations North County South Bay All News Sections Featured Projects America 250 Border Brief Data Visualization Projects KPBS Families One Small Step Price of San Diego Public Matters San Diego Book Festival America 250 Border Brief Data Visualization Projects KPBS Families One Small Step Price of San Diego Public Matters San Diego Book Festival Arts & Culture Arts & Culture Stories Arts Calendar Black Arts & Culture Museum A Month One Book, One San Diego Weekend Arts Preview Soccer a la Frontera Cinema Junkie The Finest Podcast Freeway Exit Podcast The Parker Edison Project Podcast Port of Entry Podcast Everybody's Doing It With Miss Lolly Podcast Voices del Valle Podcast Arts & Culture Stories Arts Calendar Black Arts & Culture Museum A Month One Book, One San Diego Weekend Arts Preview Soccer a la Frontera Cinema Junkie The Finest Podcast Freeway Exit Podcast The Parker Edison Project Podcast Port of Entry Podcast Everybody's Doing It With Miss Lolly Podcast Voices del Valle Podcast TV & Radio Watch Live Stream KPBS+ Watch KPBS On-Demand KPBS Evening Edition KPBS Midday Edition KPBS News: This Week KPBS Roundtable Kids TV Podcasts Radio Reading Service Radio Shows Radio 89.5 Schedule TV Highlights TV Schedules TV Shows Classical San Diego Schedule Production Services Watch Live Stream KPBS+ Watch KPBS On-Demand KPBS Evening Edition KPBS Midday Edition KPBS News: This Week KPBS Roundtable Kids TV Podcasts Radio Reading Service Radio Shows Radio 89.5 Schedule TV Highlights TV Schedules TV Shows Classical San Diego Schedule Production Services Podcasts One of Their Own Voices del Valle ScreenTime The Finest Rap Diego Free Jane Stripper Energy San Diego News Now KPBS Midday Edition Freeway Exit KPBS Roundtable Cinema Junkie KPBS Investigates Port of Entry The Parker Edison Project Everybody's Doing It With Miss Lolly San Diego Conversations The KPBS Summer Music Series Rad Scientist My First Day Device One of Their Own Voices del Valle ScreenTime The Finest Rap Diego Free Jane Stripper Energy San Diego News Now KPBS Midday Edition Freeway Exit KPBS Roundtable Cinema Junkie KPBS Investigates Port of Entry The Parker Edison Project Everybody's Doing It With Miss Lolly San Diego Conversations The KPBS Summer Music Series Rad Scientist My First Day Device Support KPBS Federal Funding Update Membership Information NPR+ KPBS Passport Producers Club Major Giving Vehicle Donation The Gratitude Collective Planned Giving Giving Property Corporate Support Other Ways to Give Federal Funding Update Membership Information NPR+ KPBS Passport Producers Club Major Giving Vehicle Donation The Gratitude Collective Planned Giving Giving Property Corporate Support Other Ways to Give Events Events Calendar Submit an Event KPBS Rentals Events Calendar Submit an Event KPBS Rentals Help Politics Trump says U.S. has entered deal with Venezuela to take control of 65 billion barrels of oil reserves By The Associated Press Published August 28, 2026 at 7:07 PM PDT Facebook WhatsApp Email Mark Schiefelbein / AP President Trump waves after arriving off Air Force One, Friday, Aug. 28, 2026, at Joint Base Andrews, Md. WASHINGTON (AP) — President Donald Trump said Friday that his administration has entered a sweeping agreement with Venezuela that, if realized, could give the U.S. access to vast amounts of the South American country's untapped oil reserves, at cost. Trump in a social media post announcing the agreement said it was negotiated by Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth and Venezuela's acting President Delcy Rodríguez. "The United States of America has just entered into an Agreement with the Country of Venezuela on, THE BIGGEST OIL DEAL IN WORLD HISTORY!" Trump wrote. Advertisement Become a KPBS sponsor Rodríguez's government in a statement said the deal involves the development of 17 fields with a proven potential of 65 billion barrels. It said the agreement could draw $100 billion in investment into Venezuela's oil industry and yield over $209 billion in taxes for Caracas. Rodríguez in a posting on Telegram predicted the deal "will have a significant impact on our nation's revival." The agreement allows for the United States to partner with an unnamed private operator in Venezuela to create a new private company to take hold of the reserves, according to a U.S. official familiar with the contours of the deal. The official, who was not authorized to comment publicly and spoke on the condition of anonymity, added that Rodríguez granted the company 100-year rights to develop the oil fields. Pedro Mattey / AP Venezuela's acting President Delcy Rodríguez speaks during a press conference in Caracas, Venezuela, on July 2, 2026. The deal gives the United States 55% effective output of the new private company -- including an ownership stake and rights to buy oil at cost. The company would be the second largest corporate holder of proven reserves after Saudi Aramco, according to the official. Advertisement Become a KPBS sponsor Trump is under pressure to show he's lowering oil costs The announcement comes nearly nine months after the U.S. military at Trump's direction carried out an operation to capture Venezuela's then-President Nicolás Maduro and spirit him to the United States to face federal narcoterrorism and drug trafficking charges. Trump faces mounting pressure to address high gas prices as the war in Iran on Friday reached a six-month milestone with no conclusion in sight. The U.S. has tapped its strategic petroleum reserves, which in early August fell below 300 million barrels, down by more than 100 million barrels since the start of 2026. The U.S.-Israel war against Iran has led to a dramatic slowdown of Gulf oil moving through the Strait of Hormuz, which about 20% of the world petroleum passed through prior to the conflict. The average price of gas in the U.S. stood at about $4.09 a gallon on Friday, according to AAA. The average price was $3.21 at the same time last year. A significant drop in U.S. gas prices tied to the agreement should not be expected immediately. Experts have repeatedly warned that a substantial boost in Venezuelan oil production will not happen quickly as repairing and expanding infrastructure takes years and requires billions of dollars. Persuading big American oil companies to return the region could face headwinds given the political uncertainty and decades of badly damaged infrastructure. Days after the ouster of Maduro, Trump gathered oil executives at the White House and called on them to rush back into Venezuela. Executives expressed interest in the opportunity but there was also a measure of caution given their past experience in the country. Darren Woods, CEO of ExxonMobil, the largest U.S. oil company, said at that moment he saw the country as "un-investable." But Trump has insisted that his administration has brought a measure of stability to Venezuela. He has argued that Venezuela stole U.S. oil when former Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez moved decades ago to nationalize hundreds of foreign-owned assets, including those owned by American oil companies. Rodríguez, in one of her early moves after taking power, signed a law that opens the nation's oil sector to privatization and reversed a bedrock tenet of the self-proclaimed socialist movement that has ruled the country for more than two decades. Rubio said on X that the agreement would usher in billions in private investment into Venezuela and lead to lower gas prices in the United States. "This deal is a huge win for both the American and Venezuelan people," Rubio posted. The oil bought from the new company would go toward filling the U.S. strategic petroleum reserve and toward military use, according to the U.S. official. Venezuela has one of the largest oil reserves in the world, with an estimated 303 billion barrels of crude oil in the ground. That's about 17% of the world's supply, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Unlike other parts of the world, where geologists have to search for untapped oil, the reserves under Venezuela's soil are largely mapped and known, experts say. But because of dilapidated infrastructure, the country only produces about 1% of the world's oil. Maduro remains jailed in the U.S. He has pleaded not guilty. __ Garcia Cano reported from Caracas. Copyright 2026 NPR Tags Politics Latinx NPR Top Stories Trending 🖼️ Museum staff cuts ☔ Labor Day weekend weather 🚓 Sex trafficking bias Sign up for our newsletters! Keep up with all the latest news, arts and culture, and TV highlights from KPBS. Email address * Today's Top Stories TV Highlights The Catch Up KPBS/Arts KPBS' Most Popular KPBS Streaming Picks North County Focus Subscribe LATEST IN PODCASTS Family of Islamic Center shooter sues mental health facility LATEST IN TV HIGHLIGHTS BIG CATS 24/7: Season 1 Most Popular American Muslims are giving Texas barbecue a halal makeover At least five dead after Amazon cargo plane crashes at Miami airport QUIZ: Ugh, I'll do it later. How much do you know about procrastination? If you prefer puzzles to doomscrolling, here are 5 great games to check out Germany's far-right achieves an electoral breakthrough in key state election Fact-based local news is essential KPBS keeps you informed with local stories you need to know about — with no paywall. Our news is free for everyone because people like you help fund it. Without federal funding, community support is our lifeline. Make a gift to protect the future of KPBS. Donate More News Public Safety Islamic Center shooter’s parents suing mental health provider for negligence, wrongful death Environment Will San Diego have a very wet winter? Maybe, maybe not Border & Immigration California lawmakers revoke charity tax breaks for Imperial County ICE detention center Economy Beach parking is free in San Diego. Should it stay that way? instagram tiktok youtube facebook About About Us & Mission Newsletters Careers FCC & Financial Mobile Apps Press Releases Privacy Policy Staff Terms of Service Help Audience and Member Services Closed Captioning Contact Us FAQs How do I listen? Passport Help Help Center Give Corporate Support Donate Membership Information Other Ways to Give Tax ID Vehicle Donation 