Trump's new tariffs on Canada raises legal questions | AP News Menu World SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Icelandic voters reject a proposal to restart negotiations to join the European Union Ontario premier answers Trump’s ‘Lake America’ with giant ‘Lake Ontario’ sign 1 dead and 5 wounded in a shooting at a rave in Switzerland Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES USS Abraham Lincoln sails past Singapore on its way home from Middle East An officer is dead and a second is injured in a shooting at South Carolina park, police chief says Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES El-Sayed apologizes for comments he made responding to an attack on a Michigan synagogue Moulton says Sen. Markey, 80, is too old for another term. Young Massachusetts Democrats are divided Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis TOP STORIES Tom Cruise announces a follow-up film to 'Days of Thunder' to hit theaters in 2028 Roger Federer brought to tears during his induction into International Tennis Hall of Fame Trump says he'll be at the Presidents Cup at Medinah as the honorary chairman Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES Dolly Parton, music star, actor and beloved figure who spanned generations, dies at 80 of cancer Celebrity birthdays for the week of June 25-July 1 Emily Wilson's 'Odyssey' became a cultural flashpoint. Now, she's retranslating the whole thing Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Investors prosper and consumers pay as the Iran war exacts an uneven economic toll 6 months in Olivia Rodrigo's festival is uniting women and girls behind nonprofits promoting their well-being Science SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES NASA's newest space telescope launches on a quest to explore the hidden universe Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Massive blackouts are unlikely if Canada stops exporting electricity to the US FACT FOCUS: Census Bureau report does not prove Trump's claim about noncitizen voting in 2020 Posts misrepresent research on multiple sclerosis and COVID-19 vaccines found in WHO database False claim of human meat in McDonald’s factories stems from old hoax George Floyd’s autopsy report is not new, does not say he died of an overdose Video of Kamala Harris saying ‘today is today’ was altered Oddities TOP STORIES Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Capybaras keep their chill while crashing Brazilian legislature Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year Raccoon goes on drunken rampage in Virginia liquor store and passes out on bathroom floor Be Well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES The best fabric for extreme heat? It's more complicated than you think Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Jetting off for a summer vacation? How to eat and drink to minimize jet lag Photography SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES One photo shows the human and environmental dimensions of artisanal mining in Congo AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 'Why? Why? Why?' Ukraine's Mariupol descends into despair Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Karina becomes a Pacific hurricane well away from land and is forecast to become a major storm Invasive green crabs are bad for the environment, so New Englanders are starting to eat more of them The best fabric for extreme heat? It's more complicated than you think Health TOP STORIES Florida, hard-hit by Obamacare drop-off, feels the squeeze of rising healthcare costs Measles deaths reported in Pennsylvania spark fight among politicians and health officials Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Jetting off for a summer vacation? How to eat and drink to minimize jet lag US officials tie cyclospora outbreak involving iceberg lettuce to 3 more states Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Judge says Pentagon's measures against Anthropic were 'illegal and baseless' Jury finds Instagram and YouTube liable in a landmark social media addiction trial His son died after a sextortion scheme. He's among many parents celebrating the rulings against Meta Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES How international supermarkets can break up a dinner rut without costing a fortune Why ordering takeout or calling the dog walker might lead to a happier relationship Have trouble sleeping in a new place? Most do because of the first-night effect Religion TOP STORIES What to know about the Mount Kailash pilgrimage site after floods in Nepal and Tibet Hindu nationalist leader spurs protests and calls for sanctions ahead of New York City speech A Jewish scholar chosen to lead the Catholic Biblical Association is hit by antisemitic backlash Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES Festival de Olivia Rodrigo une a mujeres y niñas en apoyo a ONGs de bienestar femenino EEUU deporta a provocador británico de extrema derecha Milo Yiannopoulos Reportan decenas de soldados muertos o arrestados en Níger tras aparente motín en la capital Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct MORE World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Icelandic voters reject a proposal to restart negotiations to join the European Union Ontario premier answers Trump’s ‘Lake America’ with giant ‘Lake Ontario’ sign 1 dead and 5 wounded in a shooting at a rave in Switzerland Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES USS Abraham Lincoln sails past Singapore on its way home from Middle East An officer is dead and a second is injured in a shooting at South Carolina park, police chief says Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES El-Sayed apologizes for comments he made responding to an attack on a Michigan synagogue Moulton says Sen. Markey, 80, is too old for another term. Young Massachusetts Democrats are divided Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing SECTIONS NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis TOP STORIES Tom Cruise announces a follow-up film to 'Days of Thunder' to hit theaters in 2028 Roger Federer brought to tears during his induction into International Tennis Hall of Fame Trump says he'll be at the Presidents Cup at Medinah as the honorary chairman Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES Dolly Parton, music star, actor and beloved figure who spanned generations, dies at 80 of cancer Celebrity birthdays for the week of June 25-July 1 Emily Wilson's 'Odyssey' became a cultural flashpoint. Now, she's retranslating the whole thing Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Investors prosper and consumers pay as the Iran war exacts an uneven economic toll 6 months in Olivia Rodrigo's festival is uniting women and girls behind nonprofits promoting their well-being Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES NASA's newest space telescope launches on a quest to explore the hidden universe Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Massive blackouts are unlikely if Canada stops exporting electricity to the US FACT FOCUS: Census Bureau report does not prove Trump's claim about noncitizen voting in 2020 Posts misrepresent research on multiple sclerosis and COVID-19 vaccines found in WHO database False claim of human meat in McDonald’s factories stems from old hoax George Floyd’s autopsy report is not new, does not say he died of an overdose Video of Kamala Harris saying ‘today is today’ was altered Oddities TOP STORIES Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Capybaras keep their chill while crashing Brazilian legislature Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year Raccoon goes on drunken rampage in Virginia liquor store and passes out on bathroom floor Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES The best fabric for extreme heat? It's more complicated than you think Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Jetting off for a summer vacation? How to eat and drink to minimize jet lag Photography Photo Essays SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES One photo shows the human and environmental dimensions of artisanal mining in Congo AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 'Why? Why? Why?' Ukraine's Mariupol descends into despair Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Karina becomes a Pacific hurricane well away from land and is forecast to become a major storm Invasive green crabs are bad for the environment, so New Englanders are starting to eat more of them The best fabric for extreme heat? It's more complicated than you think Health TOP STORIES Florida, hard-hit by Obamacare drop-off, feels the squeeze of rising healthcare costs Measles deaths reported in Pennsylvania spark fight among politicians and health officials Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Jetting off for a summer vacation? How to eat and drink to minimize jet lag US officials tie cyclospora outbreak involving iceberg lettuce to 3 more states Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Judge says Pentagon's measures against Anthropic were 'illegal and baseless' Jury finds Instagram and YouTube liable in a landmark social media addiction trial His son died after a sextortion scheme. He's among many parents celebrating the rulings against Meta Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES How international supermarkets can break up a dinner rut without costing a fortune Why ordering takeout or calling the dog walker might lead to a happier relationship Have trouble sleeping in a new place? Most do because of the first-night effect Religion TOP STORIES What to know about the Mount Kailash pilgrimage site after floods in Nepal and Tibet Hindu nationalist leader spurs protests and calls for sanctions ahead of New York City speech A Jewish scholar chosen to lead the Catholic Biblical Association is hit by antisemitic backlash Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español Política de EEUU Deportes SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES Festival de Olivia Rodrigo une a mujeres y niñas en apoyo a ONGs de bienestar femenino EEUU deporta a provocador británico de extrema derecha Milo Yiannopoulos Reportan decenas de soldados muertos o arrestados en Níger tras aparente motín en la capital Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct SECTIONS ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Menu World SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Icelandic voters reject a proposal to restart negotiations to join the European Union Ontario premier answers Trump’s ‘Lake America’ with giant ‘Lake Ontario’ sign 1 dead and 5 wounded in a shooting at a rave in Switzerland Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES USS Abraham Lincoln sails past Singapore on its way home from Middle East An officer is dead and a second is injured in a shooting at South Carolina park, police chief says Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES El-Sayed apologizes for comments he made responding to an attack on a Michigan synagogue Moulton says Sen. Markey, 80, is too old for another term. Young Massachusetts Democrats are divided Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis TOP STORIES Tom Cruise announces a follow-up film to 'Days of Thunder' to hit theaters in 2028 Roger Federer brought to tears during his induction into International Tennis Hall of Fame Trump says he'll be at the Presidents Cup at Medinah as the honorary chairman Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES Dolly Parton, music star, actor and beloved figure who spanned generations, dies at 80 of cancer Celebrity birthdays for the week of June 25-July 1 Emily Wilson's 'Odyssey' became a cultural flashpoint. Now, she's retranslating the whole thing Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Investors prosper and consumers pay as the Iran war exacts an uneven economic toll 6 months in Olivia Rodrigo's festival is uniting women and girls behind nonprofits promoting their well-being Science SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES NASA's newest space telescope launches on a quest to explore the hidden universe Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Massive blackouts are unlikely if Canada stops exporting electricity to the US FACT FOCUS: Census Bureau report does not prove Trump's claim about noncitizen voting in 2020 Posts misrepresent research on multiple sclerosis and COVID-19 vaccines found in WHO database False claim of human meat in McDonald’s factories stems from old hoax George Floyd’s autopsy report is not new, does not say he died of an overdose Video of Kamala Harris saying ‘today is today’ was altered Oddities TOP STORIES Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Capybaras keep their chill while crashing Brazilian legislature Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year Raccoon goes on drunken rampage in Virginia liquor store and passes out on bathroom floor Be Well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES The best fabric for extreme heat? It's more complicated than you think Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Jetting off for a summer vacation? How to eat and drink to minimize jet lag Photography SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES One photo shows the human and environmental dimensions of artisanal mining in Congo AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 'Why? Why? Why?' Ukraine's Mariupol descends into despair Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Karina becomes a Pacific hurricane well away from land and is forecast to become a major storm Invasive green crabs are bad for the environment, so New Englanders are starting to eat more of them The best fabric for extreme heat? It's more complicated than you think Health TOP STORIES Florida, hard-hit by Obamacare drop-off, feels the squeeze of rising healthcare costs Measles deaths reported in Pennsylvania spark fight among politicians and health officials Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Jetting off for a summer vacation? How to eat and drink to minimize jet lag US officials tie cyclospora outbreak involving iceberg lettuce to 3 more states Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Judge says Pentagon's measures against Anthropic were 'illegal and baseless' Jury finds Instagram and YouTube liable in a landmark social media addiction trial His son died after a sextortion scheme. He's among many parents celebrating the rulings against Meta Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES How international supermarkets can break up a dinner rut without costing a fortune Why ordering takeout or calling the dog walker might lead to a happier relationship Have trouble sleeping in a new place? Most do because of the first-night effect Religion TOP STORIES What to know about the Mount Kailash pilgrimage site after floods in Nepal and Tibet Hindu nationalist leader spurs protests and calls for sanctions ahead of New York City speech A Jewish scholar chosen to lead the Catholic Biblical Association is hit by antisemitic backlash Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES Festival de Olivia Rodrigo une a mujeres y niñas en apoyo a ONGs de bienestar femenino EEUU deporta a provocador británico de extrema derecha Milo Yiannopoulos Reportan decenas de soldados muertos o arrestados en Níger tras aparente motín en la capital Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct MORE World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Icelandic voters reject a proposal to restart negotiations to join the European Union Ontario premier answers Trump’s ‘Lake America’ with giant ‘Lake Ontario’ sign 1 dead and 5 wounded in a shooting at a rave in Switzerland Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES USS Abraham Lincoln sails past Singapore on its way home from Middle East An officer is dead and a second is injured in a shooting at South Carolina park, police chief says Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES El-Sayed apologizes for comments he made responding to an attack on a Michigan synagogue Moulton says Sen. Markey, 80, is too old for another term. Young Massachusetts Democrats are divided Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing SECTIONS NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis TOP STORIES Tom Cruise announces a follow-up film to 'Days of Thunder' to hit theaters in 2028 Roger Federer brought to tears during his induction into International Tennis Hall of Fame Trump says he'll be at the Presidents Cup at Medinah as the honorary chairman Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES Dolly Parton, music star, actor and beloved figure who spanned generations, dies at 80 of cancer Celebrity birthdays for the week of June 25-July 1 Emily Wilson's 'Odyssey' became a cultural flashpoint. Now, she's retranslating the whole thing Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Investors prosper and consumers pay as the Iran war exacts an uneven economic toll 6 months in Olivia Rodrigo's festival is uniting women and girls behind nonprofits promoting their well-being Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES NASA's newest space telescope launches on a quest to explore the hidden universe Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Massive blackouts are unlikely if Canada stops exporting electricity to the US FACT FOCUS: Census Bureau report does not prove Trump's claim about noncitizen voting in 2020 Posts misrepresent research on multiple sclerosis and COVID-19 vaccines found in WHO database False claim of human meat in McDonald’s factories stems from old hoax George Floyd’s autopsy report is not new, does not say he died of an overdose Video of Kamala Harris saying ‘today is today’ was altered Oddities TOP STORIES Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Capybaras keep their chill while crashing Brazilian legislature Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year Raccoon goes on drunken rampage in Virginia liquor store and passes out on bathroom floor Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES The best fabric for extreme heat? It's more complicated than you think Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Jetting off for a summer vacation? How to eat and drink to minimize jet lag Photography Photo Essays SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES One photo shows the human and environmental dimensions of artisanal mining in Congo AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 'Why? Why? Why?' Ukraine's Mariupol descends into despair Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Karina becomes a Pacific hurricane well away from land and is forecast to become a major storm Invasive green crabs are bad for the environment, so New Englanders are starting to eat more of them The best fabric for extreme heat? It's more complicated than you think Health TOP STORIES Florida, hard-hit by Obamacare drop-off, feels the squeeze of rising healthcare costs Measles deaths reported in Pennsylvania spark fight among politicians and health officials Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Jetting off for a summer vacation? How to eat and drink to minimize jet lag US officials tie cyclospora outbreak involving iceberg lettuce to 3 more states Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Judge says Pentagon's measures against Anthropic were 'illegal and baseless' Jury finds Instagram and YouTube liable in a landmark social media addiction trial His son died after a sextortion scheme. He's among many parents celebrating the rulings against Meta Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES How international supermarkets can break up a dinner rut without costing a fortune Why ordering takeout or calling the dog walker might lead to a happier relationship Have trouble sleeping in a new place? Most do because of the first-night effect Religion TOP STORIES What to know about the Mount Kailash pilgrimage site after floods in Nepal and Tibet Hindu nationalist leader spurs protests and calls for sanctions ahead of New York City speech A Jewish scholar chosen to lead the Catholic Biblical Association is hit by antisemitic backlash Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español Política de EEUU Deportes SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES Festival de Olivia Rodrigo une a mujeres y niñas en apoyo a ONGs de bienestar femenino EEUU deporta a provocador británico de extrema derecha Milo Yiannopoulos Reportan decenas de soldados muertos o arrestados en Níger tras aparente motín en la capital Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct SECTIONS ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Business Untested in court, Trump’s new tariffs on Canada raise legal questions Untested in court, Trump’s new tariffs on Canada raise legal questions 1 of 2 | Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney speaks at the Davie shipyard in Levis, Quebec on Monday, Aug. 24, 2026. (Jacques Boissinot/The Canadian Press via AP) Read More 2 of 2 | President Donald Trump speaks during an event to present the Congressional Space Medal of Honor to Artemis II crew members, Friday, Aug. 28, 2026, at Johnson Space Center in Houston. (AP Photo/Mark Schiefelbein) Read More By PAUL WISEMAN Leer en español --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit WASHINGTON (AP) — In firing up a trade war with Canada, President Donald Trump turned to a 96-year-old statute so obscure that many trade lawyers didn’t even know it was still on the books. A week ago, Trump invoked Section 338 of the Tariff Act of 1930 to slap a 50% tax on $20 billion worth of Canadian imports. The move prompted dollar-for-dollar retaliation from Ottawa and strained already-tense relations between the neighbors and longtime allies. The president’s Section 338 tariff authority has never been used, let alone tested in court. “This law is literally a blank canvas because it’s never been litigated,’’ said Ryan Majerus, a partner at King & Spalding and a former U.S. trade official. So it’s unclear whether Trump’s latest Canada tariffs could survive a legal challenge, and some lawyers argue that the Depression-era law has been rendered obsolete by more recent trade laws. President Donald Trump speaks with Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney, right, at a working lunch with leaders of G7 and the Middle East in Evian-les-Bains, France, June 16, 2026. (Evelyn Hockstein/Pool Photo via AP, File) Trump raises Section 338 from the dead To sanction Canada for allegedly discriminating against U.S. dairy, auto and alcoholic beverage exports this summer, the Trump administration reached back to the Great Depression. The 1930 tariff legislation is known as the Smoot-Hawley Act after its congressional sponsors. With the U.S. and world economies in collapse, Congress raised tariffs on hundreds of imports in an attempt to protect American farmers and manufacturers. Related Stories Lake Ontario now called Lake America on Google Maps for US users after Trump ordered name change 1 MIN READ US plans to sanction another bank in effort to clamp down on Iran transactions, Bessent tells AP 1 MIN READ US strikes Iranian rocket launchers on the Strait of Hormuz in first military action in weeks 3 MIN READ 85 The tariffs are notorious among economists and historians for shutting down world commerce and making the Great Depression worse. (Trump, who proudly calls himself “Tariff Man,’’ has a different view , arguing that the Smoot-Hawley levies simply came too late to rescue the American economy.) In addition to raising tariffs themselves, lawmakers in 1930 gave the president new power to impose them himself: Section 338 authorizes presidential tariffs of up to 50% on imports from countries that have discriminated against U.S. businesses. Read More Before Trump, no president had actually used the statute. “Until Trump’s second term, few trade lawyers were aware that Section 338 remained on the books or understood what it did,” legal scholars Peter Harrell and Jennifer Hillman of Georgetown University wrote earlier this month in the libertarian magazine Reason. They cite State Department records to show that the U.S. considered using Section 338 in trade disputes – against Spain in 1932 and against newly Communist China in 1949 – but never did. After the Depression, U.S. policy focused more on using negotiations — rather than sanctions — to open foreign markets. So Section 338 sat moldering in the law books. President Donald Trump descends Air Force One, Friday, Aug. 28, 2026, at Joint Base Andrews, Md. (AP Photo/Mark Schiefelbein) Sign up for Morning Wire: Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Email address Sign up By checking this box, you agree to AP's Terms of Use and acknowledge that AP may collect and use your data pursuant to our Privacy Policy . Other laws take hold As the years went by, the United States passed new trade laws. Some of them ceded to the president tariff power, which the U.S. Constitution originally granted to Congress. But the new laws also limited the president’s authority to certain circumstances — including dealing with national security threats and foreign currency crises — and required the government to carry out investigations and meet other procedural requirements beforehand. “There is a very strong argument that (Section 338) was superseded,’’ said Sara Albrecht, CEO of the Liberty Justice Center, a libertarian advocacy group that represented businesses that successfully challenged the earlier Trump tariffs with the Supreme Court. If Congress wanted the president to retain Section 338 power, Albrecht asks, why did lawmakers pass the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, which allowed for national security tariffs? And the Trade Act of 1974, which gives the president power to go after other countries’ unfair trade practices? Battling over Canada’s dairy market Legal experts see other weaknesses in the Section 338 tariffs. Harrell and Hillman, for instance, write in Reason that Section 338 only authorizes tariffs that “offset’’ the harm that a foreign country’s trade practices do to American companies. But in targeting Canada, they note, the Trump administration made no attempt to calculate the dollar amount of damage arising from discrimination against U.S. farmers, automakers and marketers of alcoholic beverages. And the U.S. went after Canadian imports unconnected to those trouble spots, including hockey sticks and cement. Harrell and Hillman also say that Canada’s protection of its dairy market does not single out U.S. farmers for discrimination; the rules apply to many other Canadian trading partners as well. Moreover, the United States agreed to the Canadian system – in which Canada imposes stiff tariffs on dairy imports that exceed a quota — in a North America trade pact Trump himself negotiated with Canada and Mexico in his first term. Harrell and Hillman write that it is “incongruous, to say the least, for the United States to denounce as discriminatory the very terms it agreed to.’’ But John Veroneau, former general counsel for the U.S. Trade Representative, said the Section 338 tariffs are straightforward: They are justified when another country discriminates against U.S. imports by taxing them more than it taxes imports from other countries. And in a “perverse irony,’’ Veroneau said, Canada did just that when it responded to tariffs Trump imposed on Canadian products last year with its own retaliatory tariffs on U.S. imports. “Courts will rightly feel obliged in the face of any challenge (to decide): Are the statutory requirements met or are they not met, however ludicrous the broader context might be,’’ said Veroneau, adjunct professor at the University of Maine Law School. Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney speaks at the Davie shipyard in Levis, Quebec on Monday, Aug. 24, 2026. (Jacques Boissinot/The Canadian Press via AP) Plaintiffs are so far hard to find Trump’s other tools to impose his protectionist agenda have already floundered in court. The Supreme Court in February threw out his boldest gambit: invoking a 1977 national security law to hit almost every country on Earth last year with double-digit tariffs. When Trump tried to replace the revenue lost to the Supreme Court defeat with a new set of tariffs, a specialized trade court in New York rejected those, too – though the government was allowed to continue collecting the import taxes while the case works its way through the court system. No one has filed a lawsuit challenging the Section 338 tariffs. The Liberty Justice Center has been looking for businesses willing to sue the government over the levies. “I haven’t had a lot of response from plaintiffs,’’ Albrecht said. “Anytime you want to sue the government, it’s a hard proposition.’’ The Section 338 tariffs on Canada are also far smaller – just 5% of Canadian imports -- than Trump’s 2025 worldwide tariffs, meaning that fewer companies have to pay them and can claim to have been injured by them. There’s also a chance, Albrecht said, that the two countries will resume the talks they broke off Aug. 21 and reach a compromise to end a standoff neither country wants. “I’m hopeful that somebody blinks, that they come to some agreement and it all goes away,’’ she said. Most read Here are the unanswered questions about Trump’s oil deal with Venezuela 7 MIN READ 885 Icelandic voters reject a proposal to restart negotiations to join the European Union 4 MIN READ 148 What to know about the Mount Kailash pilgrimage site after floods in Nepal and Tibet 2 MIN READ 21 Ontario premier answers Trump’s ‘Lake America’ with giant ‘Lake Ontario’ sign 3 MIN READ 331 El-Sayed apologizes for comments he made responding to an attack on a Michigan synagogue 1 MIN READ 697 The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct SECTIONS ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. twitter instagram facebook