 Trump backs down on Greenland and cancels tariff threat | AP News Menu World SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES King Charles III clarifies status of Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, after their return to the UK Iran says improved ballistic missile shows it will take preemptive action against threats What to know as Canada’s retaliatory tariffs on $20 billion worth of US goods take effect Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES Most states prompt schools to teach about 9/11, but the details differ, AP finds Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES Trump wants voters to pretend he’s on the ballot. The Republican Party is going along for the ride LIVE Canada strikes back with tariffs on about $20 billion worth of US goods The GOP was confident about keeping its Senate majority. Now the fight for control is wide open Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis TOP STORIES AP Top 25 shake-up looms after Oregon’s scare and LSU’s blowout, Michigan's miracle Veteran coaches surprised that stadium clock was not official clock in wild Michigan win Saturday Naomi Osaka exits US Open, but not before displaying one more swaggy fashion ensemble Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES For Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman, 'Practical Magic 2' heals old wounds El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Celebrity birthdays for the week of June 25-July 1 Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Trump threatens Canadian jetmaker Bombardier, which has an extensive US footprint Japan protests as China slaps new measures against its exports of a key chipmaking material Oil prices keep rising and weigh on Wall Street Science Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump claims US banks cannot operate in Canada. That's not true FACT FOCUS: Massive blackouts are unlikely if Canada stops exporting electricity to the US FACT FOCUS: Texans listed as 'suspense voters' can still cast a ballot if they confirm their address Posts falsely claim no airplane debris found at Pentagon on 9/11 False claim of human meat in McDonald’s factories stems from old hoax A photo that appears to show Trump's ear with no damage after the attempted assassination is actually from 2022 Oddities TOP STORIES British police try to track down theft of 70,000 pints worth of Guinness stout Ah, rats! Researchers say some other critter likely created Chicago's 'rat hole' sidewalk landmark Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Be Well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Photography SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES How a photographer captured a moment of hope in a devastated Nepal AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 At the Kaaba during Hajj, a photographer captures sense of unity and devotion Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Farmers turn to perennial grains as one solution to extreme weather Global warming will exceed limit, UN says in a report that maps path to get back below danger zone Trump administration stalled a survey of PFAS in wastewater, former EPA officials say Health TOP STORIES Cyclospora outbreak followed years of declining FDA foreign inspections Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion A Kentucky man with a meat allergy was craving a burger. So he got into ostrich farming Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Social media influencers are sharing life after marriage on 'divorce-tok' AI chatbots are at risk of spreading government restrictions on online speech, a new study says One Tech Tip: Don't use rice for your device. Here's how to dry out your smartphone Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES These bulbs have evolved to avoid being eaten. You can take advantage of that Dolly Parton and Gloria Steinem's deaths deliver a double dose of grief for feminists When lunch is the main event, here's a 'Greek Out' take on halibut and halloumi skewers Religion TOP STORIES Pope Leo XIV unveils a fresco at the sanctuary where he prayed after his election last year Pope Leo XIV is known as 'Father Bob' among fellow Augustinians. Who are they? What to know about the Mount Kailash pilgrimage site after floods in Nepal and Tibet Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Merz, impactado por triunfo electoral de ultraderecha, insiste en reformas impopulares Se reanudan vuelos a y desde la capital de Indonesia tras dos días de cierres por erupción volcánica Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct MORE World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES King Charles III clarifies status of Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, after their return to the UK Iran says improved ballistic missile shows it will take preemptive action against threats What to know as Canada’s retaliatory tariffs on $20 billion worth of US goods take effect Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES Most states prompt schools to teach about 9/11, but the details differ, AP finds Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES Trump wants voters to pretend he’s on the ballot. The Republican Party is going along for the ride LIVE Canada strikes back with tariffs on about $20 billion worth of US goods The GOP was confident about keeping its Senate majority. Now the fight for control is wide open Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing SECTIONS NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis TOP STORIES AP Top 25 shake-up looms after Oregon’s scare and LSU’s blowout, Michigan's miracle Veteran coaches surprised that stadium clock was not official clock in wild Michigan win Saturday Naomi Osaka exits US Open, but not before displaying one more swaggy fashion ensemble Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES For Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman, 'Practical Magic 2' heals old wounds El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Celebrity birthdays for the week of June 25-July 1 Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Trump threatens Canadian jetmaker Bombardier, which has an extensive US footprint Japan protests as China slaps new measures against its exports of a key chipmaking material Oil prices keep rising and weigh on Wall Street Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump claims US banks cannot operate in Canada. That's not true FACT FOCUS: Massive blackouts are unlikely if Canada stops exporting electricity to the US FACT FOCUS: Texans listed as 'suspense voters' can still cast a ballot if they confirm their address Posts falsely claim no airplane debris found at Pentagon on 9/11 False claim of human meat in McDonald’s factories stems from old hoax A photo that appears to show Trump's ear with no damage after the attempted assassination is actually from 2022 Oddities TOP STORIES British police try to track down theft of 70,000 pints worth of Guinness stout Ah, rats! Researchers say some other critter likely created Chicago's 'rat hole' sidewalk landmark Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Photography Photo Essays SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES How a photographer captured a moment of hope in a devastated Nepal AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 At the Kaaba during Hajj, a photographer captures sense of unity and devotion Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Farmers turn to perennial grains as one solution to extreme weather Global warming will exceed limit, UN says in a report that maps path to get back below danger zone Trump administration stalled a survey of PFAS in wastewater, former EPA officials say Health TOP STORIES Cyclospora outbreak followed years of declining FDA foreign inspections Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion A Kentucky man with a meat allergy was craving a burger. So he got into ostrich farming Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Social media influencers are sharing life after marriage on 'divorce-tok' AI chatbots are at risk of spreading government restrictions on online speech, a new study says One Tech Tip: Don't use rice for your device. Here's how to dry out your smartphone Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES These bulbs have evolved to avoid being eaten. You can take advantage of that Dolly Parton and Gloria Steinem's deaths deliver a double dose of grief for feminists When lunch is the main event, here's a 'Greek Out' take on halibut and halloumi skewers Religion TOP STORIES Pope Leo XIV unveils a fresco at the sanctuary where he prayed after his election last year Pope Leo XIV is known as 'Father Bob' among fellow Augustinians. Who are they? What to know about the Mount Kailash pilgrimage site after floods in Nepal and Tibet Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español Política de EEUU Deportes SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Merz, impactado por triunfo electoral de ultraderecha, insiste en reformas impopulares Se reanudan vuelos a y desde la capital de Indonesia tras dos días de cierres por erupción volcánica Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct SECTIONS ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Menu World SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES King Charles III clarifies status of Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, after their return to the UK Iran says improved ballistic missile shows it will take preemptive action against threats What to know as Canada’s retaliatory tariffs on $20 billion worth of US goods take effect Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES Most states prompt schools to teach about 9/11, but the details differ, AP finds Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES Trump wants voters to pretend he’s on the ballot. The Republican Party is going along for the ride LIVE Canada strikes back with tariffs on about $20 billion worth of US goods The GOP was confident about keeping its Senate majority. Now the fight for control is wide open Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis TOP STORIES AP Top 25 shake-up looms after Oregon’s scare and LSU’s blowout, Michigan's miracle Veteran coaches surprised that stadium clock was not official clock in wild Michigan win Saturday Naomi Osaka exits US Open, but not before displaying one more swaggy fashion ensemble Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES For Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman, 'Practical Magic 2' heals old wounds El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Celebrity birthdays for the week of June 25-July 1 Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Trump threatens Canadian jetmaker Bombardier, which has an extensive US footprint Japan protests as China slaps new measures against its exports of a key chipmaking material Oil prices keep rising and weigh on Wall Street Science Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump claims US banks cannot operate in Canada. That's not true FACT FOCUS: Massive blackouts are unlikely if Canada stops exporting electricity to the US FACT FOCUS: Texans listed as 'suspense voters' can still cast a ballot if they confirm their address Posts falsely claim no airplane debris found at Pentagon on 9/11 False claim of human meat in McDonald’s factories stems from old hoax A photo that appears to show Trump's ear with no damage after the attempted assassination is actually from 2022 Oddities TOP STORIES British police try to track down theft of 70,000 pints worth of Guinness stout Ah, rats! Researchers say some other critter likely created Chicago's 'rat hole' sidewalk landmark Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Be Well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Photography SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES How a photographer captured a moment of hope in a devastated Nepal AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 At the Kaaba during Hajj, a photographer captures sense of unity and devotion Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Farmers turn to perennial grains as one solution to extreme weather Global warming will exceed limit, UN says in a report that maps path to get back below danger zone Trump administration stalled a survey of PFAS in wastewater, former EPA officials say Health TOP STORIES Cyclospora outbreak followed years of declining FDA foreign inspections Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion A Kentucky man with a meat allergy was craving a burger. So he got into ostrich farming Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Social media influencers are sharing life after marriage on 'divorce-tok' AI chatbots are at risk of spreading government restrictions on online speech, a new study says One Tech Tip: Don't use rice for your device. Here's how to dry out your smartphone Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES These bulbs have evolved to avoid being eaten. You can take advantage of that Dolly Parton and Gloria Steinem's deaths deliver a double dose of grief for feminists When lunch is the main event, here's a 'Greek Out' take on halibut and halloumi skewers Religion TOP STORIES Pope Leo XIV unveils a fresco at the sanctuary where he prayed after his election last year Pope Leo XIV is known as 'Father Bob' among fellow Augustinians. Who are they? What to know about the Mount Kailash pilgrimage site after floods in Nepal and Tibet Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Merz, impactado por triunfo electoral de ultraderecha, insiste en reformas impopulares Se reanudan vuelos a y desde la capital de Indonesia tras dos días de cierres por erupción volcánica Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct MORE World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES King Charles III clarifies status of Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, after their return to the UK Iran says improved ballistic missile shows it will take preemptive action against threats What to know as Canada’s retaliatory tariffs on $20 billion worth of US goods take effect Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES Most states prompt schools to teach about 9/11, but the details differ, AP finds Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES Trump wants voters to pretend he’s on the ballot. The Republican Party is going along for the ride LIVE Canada strikes back with tariffs on about $20 billion worth of US goods The GOP was confident about keeping its Senate majority. Now the fight for control is wide open Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing SECTIONS NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis TOP STORIES AP Top 25 shake-up looms after Oregon’s scare and LSU’s blowout, Michigan's miracle Veteran coaches surprised that stadium clock was not official clock in wild Michigan win Saturday Naomi Osaka exits US Open, but not before displaying one more swaggy fashion ensemble Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES For Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman, 'Practical Magic 2' heals old wounds El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Celebrity birthdays for the week of June 25-July 1 Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Trump threatens Canadian jetmaker Bombardier, which has an extensive US footprint Japan protests as China slaps new measures against its exports of a key chipmaking material Oil prices keep rising and weigh on Wall Street Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump claims US banks cannot operate in Canada. That's not true FACT FOCUS: Massive blackouts are unlikely if Canada stops exporting electricity to the US FACT FOCUS: Texans listed as 'suspense voters' can still cast a ballot if they confirm their address Posts falsely claim no airplane debris found at Pentagon on 9/11 False claim of human meat in McDonald’s factories stems from old hoax A photo that appears to show Trump's ear with no damage after the attempted assassination is actually from 2022 Oddities TOP STORIES British police try to track down theft of 70,000 pints worth of Guinness stout Ah, rats! Researchers say some other critter likely created Chicago's 'rat hole' sidewalk landmark Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Photography Photo Essays SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES How a photographer captured a moment of hope in a devastated Nepal AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 At the Kaaba during Hajj, a photographer captures sense of unity and devotion Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Farmers turn to perennial grains as one solution to extreme weather Global warming will exceed limit, UN says in a report that maps path to get back below danger zone Trump administration stalled a survey of PFAS in wastewater, former EPA officials say Health TOP STORIES Cyclospora outbreak followed years of declining FDA foreign inspections Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion A Kentucky man with a meat allergy was craving a burger. So he got into ostrich farming Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Social media influencers are sharing life after marriage on 'divorce-tok' AI chatbots are at risk of spreading government restrictions on online speech, a new study says One Tech Tip: Don't use rice for your device. Here's how to dry out your smartphone Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES These bulbs have evolved to avoid being eaten. You can take advantage of that Dolly Parton and Gloria Steinem's deaths deliver a double dose of grief for feminists When lunch is the main event, here's a 'Greek Out' take on halibut and halloumi skewers Religion TOP STORIES Pope Leo XIV unveils a fresco at the sanctuary where he prayed after his election last year Pope Leo XIV is known as 'Father Bob' among fellow Augustinians. Who are they? What to know about the Mount Kailash pilgrimage site after floods in Nepal and Tibet Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español Política de EEUU Deportes SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Merz, impactado por triunfo electoral de ultraderecha, insiste en reformas impopulares Se reanudan vuelos a y desde la capital de Indonesia tras dos días de cierres por erupción volcánica Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct SECTIONS ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. World News Trump backs down on Greenland and cancels tariff threat after NATO agrees to future Arctic deal Trump backs down on Greenland and cancels tariff threat after NATO agrees to future Arctic deal 1 of 10 | President Donald Trump says he is canceling a planned tariff on U.S. allies in Europe over Greenland. This decision follows an agreement with NATO on future Arctic deal. Earlier, Trump insisted on acquiring Greenland but said he would not use force. Read More 2 of 10 | Trump tried to highlight his efforts to tame inflation and spur the US economy while speaking to the World Economic Forum. But his more than 70-minute address focused more on his gripes with other countries. Read More 3 of 10 | Greenland is the object of Trump’s desire, but he keeps calling it Iceland Read More 4 of 10 | President Donald Trump called for “immediate negotiations” for the U.S. to acquire Greenland from Denmark during his speech Wednesday at the World Economic Forum in Davos. But the president vowed he “won’t use force” to take over the island. Read More 5 of 10 | Keir Starmer made the comments in London on Wednesday, as tension between European nations and U.S. President Donald Trump continues to escalate over Trump’s insistence that the U.S. take ownership of Greenland. Read More 6 of 10 | President Donald Trump, right, meets with NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte during a meeting on the sidelines of the Annual Meeting of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 2026. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci) License this photo Read More 7 of 10 | President Donald Trump walks on to the stage during the 56th annual meeting of the World Economic Forum, WEF, in Davos, Switzerland, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 2026. (Gian Ehrenzeller/Keystone via AP) License this photo Read More 8 of 10 | President Donald Trump addresses the audience during the Annual Meeting of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 2026. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci) License this photo Read More 9 of 10 | President Donald Trump speaks during the 56th annual meeting of the World Economic Forum, WEF, in Davos, Switzerland, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 2026. (Gian Ehrenzeller/Keystone via AP) License this photo Read More 10 of 10 | President Donald Trump speaks during the 56th annual meeting of the World Economic Forum, WEF, in Davos, Switzerland, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 2026. (Gian Ehrenzeller/Keystone via AP) License this photo Read More Trump backs down on Greenland and cancels tariff threat after NATO agrees to future Arctic deal Read More 1 of 10 President Donald Trump says he is canceling a planned tariff on U.S. allies in Europe over Greenland. This decision follows an agreement with NATO on future Arctic deal. Earlier, Trump insisted on acquiring Greenland but said he would not use force. --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 2 of 10 Trump tried to highlight his efforts to tame inflation and spur the US economy while speaking to the World Economic Forum. But his more than 70-minute address focused more on his gripes with other countries. --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 3 of 10 Greenland is the object of Trump’s desire, but he keeps calling it Iceland --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 4 of 10 President Donald Trump called for “immediate negotiations” for the U.S. to acquire Greenland from Denmark during his speech Wednesday at the World Economic Forum in Davos. But the president vowed he “won’t use force” to take over the island. --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 5 of 10 Keir Starmer made the comments in London on Wednesday, as tension between European nations and U.S. President Donald Trump continues to escalate over Trump’s insistence that the U.S. take ownership of Greenland. --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 6 of 10 | President Donald Trump, right, meets with NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte during a meeting on the sidelines of the Annual Meeting of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 2026. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci) License this photo Read More 6 of 10 President Donald Trump, right, meets with NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte during a meeting on the sidelines of the Annual Meeting of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 2026. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 7 of 10 | President Donald Trump walks on to the stage during the 56th annual meeting of the World Economic Forum, WEF, in Davos, Switzerland, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 2026. (Gian Ehrenzeller/Keystone via AP) License this photo Read More 7 of 10 President Donald Trump walks on to the stage during the 56th annual meeting of the World Economic Forum, WEF, in Davos, Switzerland, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 2026. (Gian Ehrenzeller/Keystone via AP) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 8 of 10 | President Donald Trump addresses the audience during the Annual Meeting of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 2026. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci) License this photo Read More 8 of 10 President Donald Trump addresses the audience during the Annual Meeting of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 2026. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 9 of 10 | President Donald Trump speaks during the 56th annual meeting of the World Economic Forum, WEF, in Davos, Switzerland, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 2026. (Gian Ehrenzeller/Keystone via AP) License this photo Read More 9 of 10 President Donald Trump speaks during the 56th annual meeting of the World Economic Forum, WEF, in Davos, Switzerland, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 2026. (Gian Ehrenzeller/Keystone via AP) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 10 of 10 | President Donald Trump speaks during the 56th annual meeting of the World Economic Forum, WEF, in Davos, Switzerland, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 2026. (Gian Ehrenzeller/Keystone via AP) License this photo Read More 10 of 10 President Donald Trump speaks during the 56th annual meeting of the World Economic Forum, WEF, in Davos, Switzerland, Wednesday, Jan. 21, 2026. (Gian Ehrenzeller/Keystone via AP) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More By JOSH BOAK , WILL WEISSERT and AAMER MADHANI Updated [hour]:[minute] [AMPM] [timezone], [monthFull] [day], [year] Leer en español --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit DAVOS, Switzerland (AP) — President Donald Trump on Wednesday scrapped the tariffs that he threatened to impose on eight European nations to press for U.S. control over Greenland , pulling a dramatic reversal shortly after insisting he wanted to get the island “including right, title and ownership.” In a post on his social media site, Trump said he had agreed with the head of NATO on a “framework of a future deal” on Arctic security, potentially defusing tension that had far-reaching geopolitical implications. He said “additional discussions” on Greenland were being held concerning the Golden Dome missile defense program , a multilayered, $175 billion system that for the first time will put U.S. weapons in space. Trump offered few details, saying they were still being worked out. But one idea NATO members have discussed as part of a compromise with Trump was that Denmark and the alliance would work with the U.S. to build more U.S. military bases on Greenland. That’s according to a European official familiar with the matter but not authorized to comment publicly. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said it was not immediately clear if that idea was included in the framework Trump announced. Trump has backed off tariffs before The president has threatened tariffs before only to back away. In April, after first saying he would slap massive import levies on nations from around the world, which prompted a sharp negative market reaction, Trump eased off. But his change of heart this time came only after he used his speech at the World Economic Forum in the Swiss Alps to focus on Greenland and threatened to upend NATO, an alliance that has been among the globe’s most unshakable since the early days of the Cold War. Related Stories Trump honors 9/11 victims at the Ellipse, pledging to ‘never forget’ 2 MIN READ Canada will move faster from US reliance as tariffs take effect and Trump response looms 3 MIN READ 22 US hits remaining parts of Iran’s aviation sector with sanctions in latest move to isolate Tehran 2 MIN READ In his address, Trump said he was asking for territory that was “cold and poorly located” and that the U.S. had effectively saved Europe during World War II while declaring of NATO: “It’s a very small ask compared to what we have given them for many, many decades.” “We probably won’t get anything unless I decide to use excessive strength and force, where we would be frankly unstoppable. But I won’t do that, OK?” Trump said. Read More But Trump has also said repeatedly that, while the U.S. will defend NATO, he wasn’t convinced the alliance will backup Washington, if needed, and suggested that was at least part of the reason for his aggressive stance toward Greenland. That prompted NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte , in a post-speech event with Trump, to say that the alliance would stand with the U.S. if it is attacked. “You can be assured, absolutely,” Rutte said. A short time later came Trump’s post canceling the tariffs. Sign up for Morning Wire: Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Email address Sign up By checking this box, you agree to AP's Terms of Use and acknowledge that AP may collect and use your data pursuant to our Privacy Policy . Danish Foreign Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen said he welcomed Trump ruling out taking “Greenland by force” and pausing ”the trade war with Europe.” “Now, let’s sit down and find out how we can address the American security concerns in the Arctic while respecting the red lines of the Kingdom of Denmark,” he said in a statement. President cites national security Trump argues that the U.S. needs Greenland for national security and to counter threats from Russia and China in the Arctic region, despite America already having a large military base there. He threatened to impose steep U.S. import taxes on Denmark and seven other allies unless they negotiate a transfer of the semi-autonomous territory. The tariffs were to have started at 10% next month and climb to 25% in June. Trump often tries to increase pressure on the other side when he believes it can lead to a favorable agreement. His threats at Davos appeared on the verge of rupturing NATO, which was founded by leading European nations, the U.S. and Canada to counter the Soviet Union. The alliance’s other members were steadfast in saying Greenland is not for sale and cannot be wrested from Denmark, while angrily rejecting Trump’s promised tariffs. A Danish government official told The Associated Press after Trump’s speech that Copenhagen was ready to discuss U.S. security concerns. But the official, who was not authorized to comment publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity, underscored the government’s position that “red lines”— namely Denmark’s sovereignty — must be respected. It was not immediately clear how Trump’s canceling of tariffs might change such calculations. Greenland tells citizens to prepare In the meantime, Greenland’s government responded by telling its citizens to be prepared. It has published a handbook in English and Greenlandic on what to do in a crisis that urges residents to ensure they have sufficient food, water, fuel and supplies at home to survive for five days. “We just went to the grocery store and bought the supplies,” said Tony Jakobsen in Greenland’s capital Nuuk said, showing off the contents of bags that included candles, snacks and toilet paper. Jakobsen said he thought Trump’s rhetoric towards Greenland was “just threats... but it’s better to be ready than not ready.” Before backing down, Trump had urged Denmark and the rest of NATO to stand aside, adding an ominous warning. “We want a piece of ice for world protection, and they won’t give it,” Trump said. “You can say yes, and we will be very appreciative. Or you can say no, and we will remember.” He also called for opening “immediate negotiations” for the U.S. to acquire Greenland. In subsequent comments to reporters, he declined to name a price that might be paid, saying only, “There’s a bigger price, and that’s the price of safety and security and national security and international security.” His arrival in Davos was delayed after a minor electrical problem on Air Force One forced a return to Washington to switch aircraft. As Trump’s motorcade headed down a narrow road to the speech site, onlookers — including some skiers — lined the route, some making obscene gestures. Financial markets that had fallen sharply on Trump’s threatened tariffs bounced back Wednesday. Also breathing a sigh of relief were a number of U.S. officials who had also been concerned that Trump’s hard-line stance and bellicose rhetoric toward Greenland, Denmark and other NATO allies could harm other foreign policy goals. Trump’s Davos speech was originally supposed to focus on how to lower U.S. housing prices — part of a larger effort to bring down the cost of living. Greenland instead carried the day, though Trump mistakenly referred to it as Iceland four times during his speech. “This enormous unsecured island is actually part of North America,” Trump said. “That’s our territory.” When he finally did mention housing, Trump suggested he did not support a measure to encourage affordability. He said bringing down rising home prices hurts property values and makes homeowners who once felt wealthy because of the equity in their houses feel poorer. ‘Now there’s another threat’ Before Trump announced that he was abandoning the tariffs and potentially easing international pressure, his speech left people in Nuuk preparing for the worst. Resident Johnny Hedemann said it was “insulting” that Trump “talks about the Greenlandic people and the Greenlandic nation as just an ice cube.” He spoke while heading out to buy a camping stove and instant mashed potatoes. “Living in this nature, you have to be prepared for almost anything. And now there’s another threat — and that’s Trump,” Hedemann said. ___ Weissert and Madhani reported from Washington. Associated Press writers Emma Burrows in Nuuk, Greenland, Jamey Keaten in Davos and Michelle L. Price in Washington contributed to this report. JOSH BOAK Boak covers the White House and economic policy for The Associated Press. He joined the AP in 2013. twitter mailto WILL WEISSERT Weissert covers the White House for The Associated Press. He is based in Washington. twitter mailto AAMER MADHANI Madhani is a White House reporter for the Associated Press whose reporting focuses on U.S. foreign policy. Contact him securely on Signal at aamermadhani.39 twitter mailto Most read King Charles III clarifies status of Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, after their return to the UK 1 MIN READ 261 Federal investigators probe Amazon cargo jet’s fiery runway crash that killed 5 in Miami 5 MIN READ 180 Germany’s Merz shocked by far-right state election triumph but doubles down on unpopular reforms 5 MIN READ 620 The poorest in the US can’t find housing even as low-income units sit empty 6 MIN READ 881 Iran says improved ballistic missile shows it will take preemptive action against threats 3 MIN READ 184 The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct SECTIONS ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. twitter instagram facebook 