 NATO unveils military projects to boost defense spending | AP News Menu World SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES King Charles III clarifies status of Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, after their return to the UK Iran says improved ballistic missile shows it will take preemptive action against threats What to know as Canada’s retaliatory tariffs on $20 billion worth of US goods take effect Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES Most states prompt schools to teach about 9/11, but the details differ, AP finds Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES Trump wants voters to pretend he’s on the ballot. The Republican Party is going along for the ride LIVE Canada strikes back with tariffs on about $20 billion worth of US goods The GOP was confident about keeping its Senate majority. Now the fight for control is wide open Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis TOP STORIES AP Top 25 shake-up looms after Oregon’s scare and LSU’s blowout, Michigan's miracle Veteran coaches surprised that stadium clock was not official clock in wild Michigan win Saturday Naomi Osaka exits US Open, but not before displaying one more swaggy fashion ensemble Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES For Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman, 'Practical Magic 2' heals old wounds El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Celebrity birthdays for the week of June 25-July 1 Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Trump threatens Canadian jetmaker Bombardier, which has an extensive US footprint Japan protests as China slaps new measures against its exports of a key chipmaking material Jaguar Land Rover will cut 4,000 jobs to reduce costs and compete with China Science Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump claims US banks cannot operate in Canada. That's not true FACT FOCUS: Massive blackouts are unlikely if Canada stops exporting electricity to the US FACT FOCUS: Texans listed as 'suspense voters' can still cast a ballot if they confirm their address Posts falsely claim no airplane debris found at Pentagon on 9/11 False claim of human meat in McDonald’s factories stems from old hoax A photo that appears to show Trump's ear with no damage after the attempted assassination is actually from 2022 Oddities TOP STORIES British police try to track down theft of 70,000 pints worth of Guinness stout Ah, rats! Researchers say some other critter likely created Chicago's 'rat hole' sidewalk landmark Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Be Well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Photography SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES How a photographer captured a moment of hope in a devastated Nepal AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 At the Kaaba during Hajj, a photographer captures sense of unity and devotion Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Farmers turn to perennial grains as one solution to extreme weather Global warming will exceed limit, UN says in a report that maps path to get back below danger zone Trump administration stalled a survey of PFAS in wastewater, former EPA officials say Health TOP STORIES Cyclospora outbreak followed years of declining FDA foreign inspections Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion A Kentucky man with a meat allergy was craving a burger. So he got into ostrich farming Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Social media influencers are sharing life after marriage on 'divorce-tok' AI chatbots are at risk of spreading government restrictions on online speech, a new study says One Tech Tip: Don't use rice for your device. Here's how to dry out your smartphone Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES These bulbs have evolved to avoid being eaten. You can take advantage of that Dolly Parton and Gloria Steinem's deaths deliver a double dose of grief for feminists When lunch is the main event, here's a 'Greek Out' take on halibut and halloumi skewers Religion TOP STORIES Pope Leo XIV unveils a fresco at the sanctuary where he prayed after his election last year Pope Leo XIV is known as 'Father Bob' among fellow Augustinians. Who are they? What to know about the Mount Kailash pilgrimage site after floods in Nepal and Tibet Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Merz, impactado por triunfo electoral de ultraderecha, insiste en reformas impopulares Se reanudan vuelos a y desde la capital de Indonesia tras dos días de cierres por erupción volcánica Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct MORE World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES King Charles III clarifies status of Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, after their return to the UK Iran says improved ballistic missile shows it will take preemptive action against threats What to know as Canada’s retaliatory tariffs on $20 billion worth of US goods take effect Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES Most states prompt schools to teach about 9/11, but the details differ, AP finds Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES Trump wants voters to pretend he’s on the ballot. The Republican Party is going along for the ride LIVE Canada strikes back with tariffs on about $20 billion worth of US goods The GOP was confident about keeping its Senate majority. Now the fight for control is wide open Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing SECTIONS NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis TOP STORIES AP Top 25 shake-up looms after Oregon’s scare and LSU’s blowout, Michigan's miracle Veteran coaches surprised that stadium clock was not official clock in wild Michigan win Saturday Naomi Osaka exits US Open, but not before displaying one more swaggy fashion ensemble Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES For Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman, 'Practical Magic 2' heals old wounds El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Celebrity birthdays for the week of June 25-July 1 Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Trump threatens Canadian jetmaker Bombardier, which has an extensive US footprint Japan protests as China slaps new measures against its exports of a key chipmaking material Jaguar Land Rover will cut 4,000 jobs to reduce costs and compete with China Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump claims US banks cannot operate in Canada. That's not true FACT FOCUS: Massive blackouts are unlikely if Canada stops exporting electricity to the US FACT FOCUS: Texans listed as 'suspense voters' can still cast a ballot if they confirm their address Posts falsely claim no airplane debris found at Pentagon on 9/11 False claim of human meat in McDonald’s factories stems from old hoax A photo that appears to show Trump's ear with no damage after the attempted assassination is actually from 2022 Oddities TOP STORIES British police try to track down theft of 70,000 pints worth of Guinness stout Ah, rats! Researchers say some other critter likely created Chicago's 'rat hole' sidewalk landmark Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Photography Photo Essays SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES How a photographer captured a moment of hope in a devastated Nepal AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 At the Kaaba during Hajj, a photographer captures sense of unity and devotion Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Farmers turn to perennial grains as one solution to extreme weather Global warming will exceed limit, UN says in a report that maps path to get back below danger zone Trump administration stalled a survey of PFAS in wastewater, former EPA officials say Health TOP STORIES Cyclospora outbreak followed years of declining FDA foreign inspections Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion A Kentucky man with a meat allergy was craving a burger. So he got into ostrich farming Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Social media influencers are sharing life after marriage on 'divorce-tok' AI chatbots are at risk of spreading government restrictions on online speech, a new study says One Tech Tip: Don't use rice for your device. Here's how to dry out your smartphone Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES These bulbs have evolved to avoid being eaten. You can take advantage of that Dolly Parton and Gloria Steinem's deaths deliver a double dose of grief for feminists When lunch is the main event, here's a 'Greek Out' take on halibut and halloumi skewers Religion TOP STORIES Pope Leo XIV unveils a fresco at the sanctuary where he prayed after his election last year Pope Leo XIV is known as 'Father Bob' among fellow Augustinians. Who are they? What to know about the Mount Kailash pilgrimage site after floods in Nepal and Tibet Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español Política de EEUU Deportes SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Merz, impactado por triunfo electoral de ultraderecha, insiste en reformas impopulares Se reanudan vuelos a y desde la capital de Indonesia tras dos días de cierres por erupción volcánica Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct SECTIONS ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Menu World SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES King Charles III clarifies status of Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, after their return to the UK Iran says improved ballistic missile shows it will take preemptive action against threats What to know as Canada’s retaliatory tariffs on $20 billion worth of US goods take effect Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES Most states prompt schools to teach about 9/11, but the details differ, AP finds Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES Trump wants voters to pretend he’s on the ballot. The Republican Party is going along for the ride LIVE Canada strikes back with tariffs on about $20 billion worth of US goods The GOP was confident about keeping its Senate majority. Now the fight for control is wide open Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis TOP STORIES AP Top 25 shake-up looms after Oregon’s scare and LSU’s blowout, Michigan's miracle Veteran coaches surprised that stadium clock was not official clock in wild Michigan win Saturday Naomi Osaka exits US Open, but not before displaying one more swaggy fashion ensemble Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES For Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman, 'Practical Magic 2' heals old wounds El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Celebrity birthdays for the week of June 25-July 1 Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Trump threatens Canadian jetmaker Bombardier, which has an extensive US footprint Japan protests as China slaps new measures against its exports of a key chipmaking material Jaguar Land Rover will cut 4,000 jobs to reduce costs and compete with China Science Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump claims US banks cannot operate in Canada. That's not true FACT FOCUS: Massive blackouts are unlikely if Canada stops exporting electricity to the US FACT FOCUS: Texans listed as 'suspense voters' can still cast a ballot if they confirm their address Posts falsely claim no airplane debris found at Pentagon on 9/11 False claim of human meat in McDonald’s factories stems from old hoax A photo that appears to show Trump's ear with no damage after the attempted assassination is actually from 2022 Oddities TOP STORIES British police try to track down theft of 70,000 pints worth of Guinness stout Ah, rats! Researchers say some other critter likely created Chicago's 'rat hole' sidewalk landmark Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Be Well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Photography SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES How a photographer captured a moment of hope in a devastated Nepal AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 At the Kaaba during Hajj, a photographer captures sense of unity and devotion Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Farmers turn to perennial grains as one solution to extreme weather Global warming will exceed limit, UN says in a report that maps path to get back below danger zone Trump administration stalled a survey of PFAS in wastewater, former EPA officials say Health TOP STORIES Cyclospora outbreak followed years of declining FDA foreign inspections Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion A Kentucky man with a meat allergy was craving a burger. So he got into ostrich farming Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Social media influencers are sharing life after marriage on 'divorce-tok' AI chatbots are at risk of spreading government restrictions on online speech, a new study says One Tech Tip: Don't use rice for your device. Here's how to dry out your smartphone Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES These bulbs have evolved to avoid being eaten. You can take advantage of that Dolly Parton and Gloria Steinem's deaths deliver a double dose of grief for feminists When lunch is the main event, here's a 'Greek Out' take on halibut and halloumi skewers Religion TOP STORIES Pope Leo XIV unveils a fresco at the sanctuary where he prayed after his election last year Pope Leo XIV is known as 'Father Bob' among fellow Augustinians. Who are they? What to know about the Mount Kailash pilgrimage site after floods in Nepal and Tibet Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Merz, impactado por triunfo electoral de ultraderecha, insiste en reformas impopulares Se reanudan vuelos a y desde la capital de Indonesia tras dos días de cierres por erupción volcánica Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct MORE World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES King Charles III clarifies status of Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, after their return to the UK Iran says improved ballistic missile shows it will take preemptive action against threats What to know as Canada’s retaliatory tariffs on $20 billion worth of US goods take effect Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES Most states prompt schools to teach about 9/11, but the details differ, AP finds Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES Trump wants voters to pretend he’s on the ballot. The Republican Party is going along for the ride LIVE Canada strikes back with tariffs on about $20 billion worth of US goods The GOP was confident about keeping its Senate majority. Now the fight for control is wide open Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing SECTIONS NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis TOP STORIES AP Top 25 shake-up looms after Oregon’s scare and LSU’s blowout, Michigan's miracle Veteran coaches surprised that stadium clock was not official clock in wild Michigan win Saturday Naomi Osaka exits US Open, but not before displaying one more swaggy fashion ensemble Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES For Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman, 'Practical Magic 2' heals old wounds El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Celebrity birthdays for the week of June 25-July 1 Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Trump threatens Canadian jetmaker Bombardier, which has an extensive US footprint Japan protests as China slaps new measures against its exports of a key chipmaking material Jaguar Land Rover will cut 4,000 jobs to reduce costs and compete with China Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump claims US banks cannot operate in Canada. That's not true FACT FOCUS: Massive blackouts are unlikely if Canada stops exporting electricity to the US FACT FOCUS: Texans listed as 'suspense voters' can still cast a ballot if they confirm their address Posts falsely claim no airplane debris found at Pentagon on 9/11 False claim of human meat in McDonald’s factories stems from old hoax A photo that appears to show Trump's ear with no damage after the attempted assassination is actually from 2022 Oddities TOP STORIES British police try to track down theft of 70,000 pints worth of Guinness stout Ah, rats! Researchers say some other critter likely created Chicago's 'rat hole' sidewalk landmark Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Photography Photo Essays SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES How a photographer captured a moment of hope in a devastated Nepal AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 At the Kaaba during Hajj, a photographer captures sense of unity and devotion Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Farmers turn to perennial grains as one solution to extreme weather Global warming will exceed limit, UN says in a report that maps path to get back below danger zone Trump administration stalled a survey of PFAS in wastewater, former EPA officials say Health TOP STORIES Cyclospora outbreak followed years of declining FDA foreign inspections Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion A Kentucky man with a meat allergy was craving a burger. So he got into ostrich farming Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Social media influencers are sharing life after marriage on 'divorce-tok' AI chatbots are at risk of spreading government restrictions on online speech, a new study says One Tech Tip: Don't use rice for your device. Here's how to dry out your smartphone Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES These bulbs have evolved to avoid being eaten. You can take advantage of that Dolly Parton and Gloria Steinem's deaths deliver a double dose of grief for feminists When lunch is the main event, here's a 'Greek Out' take on halibut and halloumi skewers Religion TOP STORIES Pope Leo XIV unveils a fresco at the sanctuary where he prayed after his election last year Pope Leo XIV is known as 'Father Bob' among fellow Augustinians. Who are they? What to know about the Mount Kailash pilgrimage site after floods in Nepal and Tibet Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español Política de EEUU Deportes SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Merz, impactado por triunfo electoral de ultraderecha, insiste en reformas impopulares Se reanudan vuelos a y desde la capital de Indonesia tras dos días de cierres por erupción volcánica Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct SECTIONS ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. World News NATO unveils billions in arms deals to prove its firepower as Trump again demands Greenland NATO unveils billions in arms deals to prove its firepower as Trump again demands Greenland 1 of 10 | US President Donald Trump and NATO leaders are meeting in Ankara in Turkey on Tuesday for a two-day summit focused on the military alliance’s future. Read More 2 of 10 | President Donald Trump arrived in Turkey on Tuesday to meet with fellow NATO leaders. The summit comes as the alliance tries to persuade him that their countries are actively increasing their military capabilities even as the American focus shifts away from its defense of Europe toward Asia. Read More 3 of 10 | President Donald Trump said the U.S. will lift sanctions on Turkey and consider restoring the sale of F-35 fighter jets to the country, signaling a possible reversal of a ban his administration imposed after Ankara bought Russian missile defense systems. Read More 4 of 10 | US President Donald Trump heads to Ankara, Turkey, on Monday evening for the annual NATO summit. Last year, he pushed alliance allies to spend more on defense. This year, his mission is to try to enforce those pledges. (AP Video: Nathan Ellgren) Read More 5 of 10 | Thousands of protestors from leftist parties, syndicates and women’s groups on Tuesday marched in central Istanbul against the NATO summit at the end of the first day of the conference. Read More 6 of 10 | NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte, center, poses with NATO defense ministers and industry representatives during the opening of the NATO Defense Industry Forum on the sidelines of the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (AP Photo/Hussein Malla) License this photo Read More 7 of 10 | President Donald Trump shakes hands with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan at the Bestepe Presidential Palace during a formal welcome for the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026.(AP Photo/Alex Brandon) License this photo Read More 8 of 10 | Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy looks out from his car window as he arrives for the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (Metin Aktaş, Pool Photo via AP) License this photo Read More 9 of 10 | Police detain protestors during a demonstration outside of the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (AP Photo/Ali Unal) License this photo Read More 10 of 10 | Two men walk past the NATO logo during the NATO Defense Industry Forum at the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (AP Photo/Hussein Malla) License this photo Read More NATO unveils billions in arms deals to prove its firepower as Trump again demands Greenland Read More 1 of 10 US President Donald Trump and NATO leaders are meeting in Ankara in Turkey on Tuesday for a two-day summit focused on the military alliance’s future. --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 2 of 10 President Donald Trump arrived in Turkey on Tuesday to meet with fellow NATO leaders. The summit comes as the alliance tries to persuade him that their countries are actively increasing their military capabilities even as the American focus shifts away from its defense of Europe toward Asia. --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 3 of 10 President Donald Trump said the U.S. will lift sanctions on Turkey and consider restoring the sale of F-35 fighter jets to the country, signaling a possible reversal of a ban his administration imposed after Ankara bought Russian missile defense systems. --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 4 of 10 US President Donald Trump heads to Ankara, Turkey, on Monday evening for the annual NATO summit. Last year, he pushed alliance allies to spend more on defense. This year, his mission is to try to enforce those pledges. (AP Video: Nathan Ellgren) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 5 of 10 Thousands of protestors from leftist parties, syndicates and women’s groups on Tuesday marched in central Istanbul against the NATO summit at the end of the first day of the conference. --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 6 of 10 | NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte, center, poses with NATO defense ministers and industry representatives during the opening of the NATO Defense Industry Forum on the sidelines of the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (AP Photo/Hussein Malla) License this photo Read More 6 of 10 NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte, center, poses with NATO defense ministers and industry representatives during the opening of the NATO Defense Industry Forum on the sidelines of the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (AP Photo/Hussein Malla) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 7 of 10 | President Donald Trump shakes hands with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan at the Bestepe Presidential Palace during a formal welcome for the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026.(AP Photo/Alex Brandon) License this photo Read More 7 of 10 President Donald Trump shakes hands with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan at the Bestepe Presidential Palace during a formal welcome for the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026.(AP Photo/Alex Brandon) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 8 of 10 | Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy looks out from his car window as he arrives for the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (Metin Aktaş, Pool Photo via AP) License this photo Read More 8 of 10 Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy looks out from his car window as he arrives for the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (Metin Aktaş, Pool Photo via AP) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 9 of 10 | Police detain protestors during a demonstration outside of the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (AP Photo/Ali Unal) License this photo Read More 9 of 10 Police detain protestors during a demonstration outside of the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (AP Photo/Ali Unal) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 10 of 10 | Two men walk past the NATO logo during the NATO Defense Industry Forum at the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (AP Photo/Hussein Malla) License this photo Read More 10 of 10 Two men walk past the NATO logo during the NATO Defense Industry Forum at the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (AP Photo/Hussein Malla) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More By SEUNG MIN KIM , LORNE COOK , SUZAN FRASER and ABBY SEWELL Updated [hour]:[minute] [AMPM] [timezone], [monthFull] [day], [year] Leer en español --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit ANKARA, Turkey (AP) — President Donald Trump on Tuesday insisted that the United States should be in control of Greenland rather than NATO ally Denmark, renewing tensions in Europe even as the trans-Atlantic military alliance was announcing billions in arms deals at a summit in an attempt to appease the mercurial U.S. leader. Trump called the semiautonomous island “an important part” for the United States, as he repeated the false claim that it’s surrounded by Chinese and Russian ships and said he won’t let Greenland be threatened. “That should be controlled by the United States, not by Denmark,” Trump told reporters during a meeting with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Ankara. President Donald Trump, left, meets with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan as he arrives for the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (Osmancan Gürdoğan, Pool Photo via AP) President Donald Trump, left, meets with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan as he arrives for the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (Osmancan Gürdoğan, Pool Photo via AP) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More The NATO alliance was founded on the principle that its 32 members will defend each others’ territory and not threaten to seize it. At the summit, European countries and the alliance’s secretary-general, Mark Rutte , were already working overtime to address another longstanding Trump complaint: that European allies do not spend enough on their own defense. Separately, Trump announced that the U.S. will lift sanctions on Turkey that were issued after Ankara purchased a Russian missile defense system that led to the country being kicked out of the F-35 fighter jet program — in a nod to his warm ties with summit host Erdogan . NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte, center, participates in a media statement with European Council President Antonio Costa, left, and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen during the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (AP Photo/Hussein Malla) NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte, center, participates in a media statement with European Council President Antonio Costa, left, and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen during the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (AP Photo/Hussein Malla) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Trump cites Erdogan ‘chemistry’ as he lifts an obstacle on F-35s RELATED COVERAGE What to know about NATO’s summit in Turkey as America steps back from its defense of Europe 148 NATO chief demands allies present credible plans to reach defense spending targets 34 Trump won big spending promises from NATO last year. This week in Turkey, he’ll try to enforce them 175 Turkey’s purchase in 2019 of Russian-made S-400 missile defense systems sparked years of tensions, despite the warm personal relationship between Trump and Erdogan dating back to the U.S. president’s first term. Legal hurdles remain before Turkey could be fully admitted back to the U.S. F-35 program, but the removal of sanctions issued under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act would help ease that process. Regaining access to the F-35s is a top goal of Erdogan. “We’re going to be taking the sanctions off, OK?” Trump said in response to a question, saying Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent and Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth were working on the issue. Front row from left, U.S. Ambassador to Turkey Tom Barrack, U.S. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, U.S. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent, U.S. Secretary of State Marco Rubio and U.S. Ambassador to NATO Matthew G. Whitaker attend the formal welcome for President Donald Trump at the NATO summit at the Bestepe Presidential Palace in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon) Front row from left, U.S. Ambassador to Turkey Tom Barrack, U.S. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, U.S. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent, U.S. Secretary of State Marco Rubio and U.S. Ambassador to NATO Matthew G. Whitaker attend the formal welcome for President Donald Trump at the NATO summit at the Bestepe Presidential Palace in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Trump said the possibility of selling F-35s to Turkey is “something certainly we’d consider” given the countries’ relationship, and that “Turkey’s been, in many ways, much more loyal than other countries that we think would be loyal.” Read More Erdogan expressed hope that the U.S. will sell the F-35s, saying the U.S. president always stands by his word. Trump and Erdogan showed off their fondness for each other. Erdogan greeted Trump with an elaborate ceremony involving military officials on horseback and jets overhead emitting red, white and blue smoke. Asked what makes their relationship so strong, Trump said there’s “a chemistry that works between us,” adding that “Sometimes you get along with the toughest people, like him.” Turkey’s access to U.S. F-35s could complicate relationships elsewhere. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said he has urged Trump not to sell the fighter jets to Turkey, saying it would put Israel in danger. “This is not a force for peace and stability,” Netanyahu said on CNN. “When you give them that power, you’re going to see aggression its wake.” President Donald Trump shakes hands with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan upon arriving for the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon) License this photo President Donald Trump shakes hands with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan upon arriving for the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More There is also opposition among U.S. lawmakers to Turkey having the F-35s as long as the Russian missile defense system remains in its possession. Even if sanctions are lifted, the Trump administration still faces restrictions under U.S. law that prevents Turkey from being able to purchase the fighter jets if it owns the S-400s. NATO has ‘moment of great pride’ on defense Sign up for Morning Wire: Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Email address Sign up By checking this box, you agree to AP's Terms of Use and acknowledge that AP may collect and use your data pursuant to our Privacy Policy . Earlier in the day, NATO showcased military projects worth billions of dollars — an investment Rutte called “money well spent” and one clearly meant to try to satisfy Trump. Rutte was speaking to government ministers and defense industry officials at a forum billed as NATO’s “big reveal,” to the thrum of techno music. NATO does not own weapons — these are the property of member countries — but it has 14 AWACS early warning radar surveillance planes that are about 50 years old, along with newer surveillance drones. A deal to replace the aging planes was announced Tuesday. Swedish manufacturer Saab will supply up to 10 new GlobalEye surveillance aircraft for a 10-nation consortium, Swedish Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson announced. “It’s a moment of great pride,” he said. Some projects will be paid for with funds from a system of cheap loans for defense purposes set up by the European Union, comprising up to $170 billion raised on capital markets. NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte, listens, as Sweden’s Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson speaks at the opening of the NATO Defense Industry Forum on the sidelines of the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (AP Photo/Hussein Malla) NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte, listens, as Sweden’s Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson speaks at the opening of the NATO Defense Industry Forum on the sidelines of the NATO summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (AP Photo/Hussein Malla) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Representatives from 15 nations announced a multinational effort to buy air-to-air refueling and transport planes from Airbus. Then Rutte announced a four-country effort to purchase as many as five new Triton surveillance drones. Rutte had told reporters on the eve of the two-day summit that “we will announce tens of billions in new contracts.” However, at Tuesday’s event, no dollar figures were given and the display included some projects long since agreed. Ukraine’s Zelenskyy pushes for NATO entry Separately, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy made a fresh appeal for his country to be allowed to join the alliance, saying his country’s armed forces are highly experienced and would boost NATO’s defense capabilities. He highlighted Ukraine’s ability to strike deep inside Russia and hit oil refineries and other energy targets. He said Ukraine’s armed forces are “eliminating” on average 30,000 Russian troops every month. He is set to meet with Trump on Wednesday in Ankara. Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, left, arrives for the NATO Summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (Metin Aktaş, Pool Photo via AP) Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, left, arrives for the NATO Summit in Ankara, Turkey, Tuesday, July 7, 2026. (Metin Aktaş, Pool Photo via AP) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More “Frankly we take no pride in this,” Zelenskyy said, noting that the war with Russia — now in its fifth year — is one “we did not seek but one we are forced to fight.” Concern is mounting among some European countries that Russia might be preparing a hybrid attack — a combination of conventional warfare with tactics like cyberattacks — on the continent as Russian President Vladimir Putin struggles to secure victory in Ukraine. Yet a senior NATO official, speaking on the summit’s sidelines, said that despite some “reckless” actions by Russia, including airspace violations over Poland, Romania and Estonia, the alliance has been successful in deterring Moscow from any potential attack on a member country. The official insisted on anonymity to brief reporters. ___ Associated Press writers Jill Lawless in London, Andy Wilks in Istanbul and Michelle L. Price and Collin Binkley in Washington contributed to this report. SEUNG MIN KIM Kim covers the White House for The Associated Press. She joined the AP in 2022 and is based in Washington. Kim is also a political analyst for CNN. twitter mailto ABBY SEWELL Sewell is the Associated Press news director for Lebanon, Syria and Iraq. She joined the AP in 2022 but has been based in the region since 2016, reporting and guiding coverage on some of its most significant news stories. twitter mailto Most read King Charles III clarifies status of Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, after their return to the UK 1 MIN READ 261 Federal investigators probe Amazon cargo jet’s fiery runway crash that killed 5 in Miami 5 MIN READ 180 Germany’s Merz shocked by far-right state election triumph but doubles down on unpopular reforms 5 MIN READ 620 The poorest in the US can’t find housing even as low-income units sit empty 6 MIN READ 881 Iran says improved ballistic missile shows it will take preemptive action against threats 3 MIN READ 184 The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct SECTIONS ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. twitter instagram facebook 