 What we know about new US-Venezuela oil deal | AP News Menu World SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES King Charles III clarifies status of Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, after their return to the UK Iran says improved ballistic missile shows it will take preemptive action against threats What to know as Canada’s retaliatory tariffs on $20 billion worth of US goods take effect Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES The poorest in the US can't find housing even as low-income units sit empty Party's over for crypto scammers who went on a spending spree after a $240 million bitcoin theft One attack, many Americas: Why 9/11 and its many griefs land differently 25 years later Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES Trump wants voters to pretend he’s on the ballot. The Republican Party is going along for the ride The GOP was confident about keeping its Senate majority. Now the fight for control is wide open LIVE Canada strikes back with tariffs on about $20 billion worth of US goods Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis TOP STORIES Veteran coaches surprised that stadium clock was not official clock in wild Michigan win Saturday Naomi Osaka exits US Open, but not before displaying one more swaggy fashion ensemble High school QBs face new reality as transfers dominate starting jobs at the top of college football Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES For Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman, 'Practical Magic 2' heals old wounds Celebrity birthdays for the week of June 25-July 1 El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Trump threatens Canadian jetmaker Bombardier, which has an extensive US footprint Jaguar Land Rover will cut 4,000 jobs to reduce costs and compete with China Science Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump claims US banks cannot operate in Canada. That's not true FACT FOCUS: Massive blackouts are unlikely if Canada stops exporting electricity to the US Posts falsely claim no airplane debris found at Pentagon on 9/11 FACT FOCUS: Texans listed as 'suspense voters' can still cast a ballot if they confirm their address False claim of human meat in McDonald’s factories stems from old hoax FACT FOCUS: Trump says he's ended eight wars. His numbers are off Oddities TOP STORIES British police try to track down theft of 70,000 pints worth of Guinness stout Ah, rats! Researchers say some other critter likely created Chicago's 'rat hole' sidewalk landmark Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Cavadores de tumbas húngaros compiten en concurso de velocidad para desafiar tabúes Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year Be Well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Photography SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES How a photographer captured a moment of hope in a devastated Nepal AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 At the Kaaba during Hajj, a photographer captures sense of unity and devotion Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Farmers turn to perennial grains as one solution to extreme weather Global warming will exceed limit, UN says in a report that maps path to get back below danger zone Carbon credit financing emerges as Africa’s biggest bet for expanding clean cooking Health TOP STORIES Cyclospora outbreak followed years of declining FDA foreign inspections Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion A Kentucky man with a meat allergy was craving a burger. So he got into ostrich farming Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES 'Divorce-tok' fills social media as creators find audiences and support by sharing heartbreak AI chatbots are at risk of spreading government restrictions on online speech, a new study says One Tech Tip: Don't use rice for your device. Here's how to dry out your smartphone Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES Dolly Parton and Gloria Steinem's deaths deliver a double dose of grief for feminists When lunch is the main event, here's a 'Greek Out' take on halibut and halloumi skewers Why ordering takeout or calling the dog walker might lead to a happier relationship Religion TOP STORIES Pope Leo XIV unveils a fresco at the sanctuary where he prayed after his election last year Pope Leo XIV is known as 'Father Bob' among fellow Augustinians. Who are they? What to know about the Mount Kailash pilgrimage site after floods in Nepal and Tibet Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Localizan a 26 pescadores ecuatorianos tras intercepción de EEUU a un barco en el Pacífico El gobierno británico condena a manifestantes antiinmigrantes tras protestas por cruces del Canal Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct MORE World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES King Charles III clarifies status of Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, after their return to the UK Iran says improved ballistic missile shows it will take preemptive action against threats What to know as Canada’s retaliatory tariffs on $20 billion worth of US goods take effect Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES The poorest in the US can't find housing even as low-income units sit empty Party's over for crypto scammers who went on a spending spree after a $240 million bitcoin theft One attack, many Americas: Why 9/11 and its many griefs land differently 25 years later Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES Trump wants voters to pretend he’s on the ballot. The Republican Party is going along for the ride The GOP was confident about keeping its Senate majority. Now the fight for control is wide open LIVE Canada strikes back with tariffs on about $20 billion worth of US goods Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing SECTIONS NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis TOP STORIES Veteran coaches surprised that stadium clock was not official clock in wild Michigan win Saturday Naomi Osaka exits US Open, but not before displaying one more swaggy fashion ensemble High school QBs face new reality as transfers dominate starting jobs at the top of college football Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES For Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman, 'Practical Magic 2' heals old wounds Celebrity birthdays for the week of June 25-July 1 El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Trump threatens Canadian jetmaker Bombardier, which has an extensive US footprint Jaguar Land Rover will cut 4,000 jobs to reduce costs and compete with China Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump claims US banks cannot operate in Canada. That's not true FACT FOCUS: Massive blackouts are unlikely if Canada stops exporting electricity to the US Posts falsely claim no airplane debris found at Pentagon on 9/11 FACT FOCUS: Texans listed as 'suspense voters' can still cast a ballot if they confirm their address False claim of human meat in McDonald’s factories stems from old hoax FACT FOCUS: Trump says he's ended eight wars. His numbers are off Oddities TOP STORIES British police try to track down theft of 70,000 pints worth of Guinness stout Ah, rats! Researchers say some other critter likely created Chicago's 'rat hole' sidewalk landmark Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Cavadores de tumbas húngaros compiten en concurso de velocidad para desafiar tabúes Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Photography Photo Essays SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES How a photographer captured a moment of hope in a devastated Nepal AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 At the Kaaba during Hajj, a photographer captures sense of unity and devotion Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Farmers turn to perennial grains as one solution to extreme weather Global warming will exceed limit, UN says in a report that maps path to get back below danger zone Carbon credit financing emerges as Africa’s biggest bet for expanding clean cooking Health TOP STORIES Cyclospora outbreak followed years of declining FDA foreign inspections Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion A Kentucky man with a meat allergy was craving a burger. So he got into ostrich farming Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES 'Divorce-tok' fills social media as creators find audiences and support by sharing heartbreak AI chatbots are at risk of spreading government restrictions on online speech, a new study says One Tech Tip: Don't use rice for your device. Here's how to dry out your smartphone Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES Dolly Parton and Gloria Steinem's deaths deliver a double dose of grief for feminists When lunch is the main event, here's a 'Greek Out' take on halibut and halloumi skewers Why ordering takeout or calling the dog walker might lead to a happier relationship Religion TOP STORIES Pope Leo XIV unveils a fresco at the sanctuary where he prayed after his election last year Pope Leo XIV is known as 'Father Bob' among fellow Augustinians. Who are they? What to know about the Mount Kailash pilgrimage site after floods in Nepal and Tibet Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español Política de EEUU Deportes SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Localizan a 26 pescadores ecuatorianos tras intercepción de EEUU a un barco en el Pacífico El gobierno británico condena a manifestantes antiinmigrantes tras protestas por cruces del Canal Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct SECTIONS ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Menu World SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES King Charles III clarifies status of Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, after their return to the UK Iran says improved ballistic missile shows it will take preemptive action against threats What to know as Canada’s retaliatory tariffs on $20 billion worth of US goods take effect Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES The poorest in the US can't find housing even as low-income units sit empty Party's over for crypto scammers who went on a spending spree after a $240 million bitcoin theft One attack, many Americas: Why 9/11 and its many griefs land differently 25 years later Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES Trump wants voters to pretend he’s on the ballot. The Republican Party is going along for the ride The GOP was confident about keeping its Senate majority. Now the fight for control is wide open LIVE Canada strikes back with tariffs on about $20 billion worth of US goods Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis TOP STORIES Veteran coaches surprised that stadium clock was not official clock in wild Michigan win Saturday Naomi Osaka exits US Open, but not before displaying one more swaggy fashion ensemble High school QBs face new reality as transfers dominate starting jobs at the top of college football Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES For Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman, 'Practical Magic 2' heals old wounds Celebrity birthdays for the week of June 25-July 1 El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Trump threatens Canadian jetmaker Bombardier, which has an extensive US footprint Jaguar Land Rover will cut 4,000 jobs to reduce costs and compete with China Science Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump claims US banks cannot operate in Canada. That's not true FACT FOCUS: Massive blackouts are unlikely if Canada stops exporting electricity to the US Posts falsely claim no airplane debris found at Pentagon on 9/11 FACT FOCUS: Texans listed as 'suspense voters' can still cast a ballot if they confirm their address False claim of human meat in McDonald’s factories stems from old hoax FACT FOCUS: Trump says he's ended eight wars. His numbers are off Oddities TOP STORIES British police try to track down theft of 70,000 pints worth of Guinness stout Ah, rats! Researchers say some other critter likely created Chicago's 'rat hole' sidewalk landmark Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Cavadores de tumbas húngaros compiten en concurso de velocidad para desafiar tabúes Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year Be Well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Photography SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES How a photographer captured a moment of hope in a devastated Nepal AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 At the Kaaba during Hajj, a photographer captures sense of unity and devotion Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Farmers turn to perennial grains as one solution to extreme weather Global warming will exceed limit, UN says in a report that maps path to get back below danger zone Carbon credit financing emerges as Africa’s biggest bet for expanding clean cooking Health TOP STORIES Cyclospora outbreak followed years of declining FDA foreign inspections Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion A Kentucky man with a meat allergy was craving a burger. So he got into ostrich farming Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES 'Divorce-tok' fills social media as creators find audiences and support by sharing heartbreak AI chatbots are at risk of spreading government restrictions on online speech, a new study says One Tech Tip: Don't use rice for your device. Here's how to dry out your smartphone Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES Dolly Parton and Gloria Steinem's deaths deliver a double dose of grief for feminists When lunch is the main event, here's a 'Greek Out' take on halibut and halloumi skewers Why ordering takeout or calling the dog walker might lead to a happier relationship Religion TOP STORIES Pope Leo XIV unveils a fresco at the sanctuary where he prayed after his election last year Pope Leo XIV is known as 'Father Bob' among fellow Augustinians. Who are they? What to know about the Mount Kailash pilgrimage site after floods in Nepal and Tibet Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Localizan a 26 pescadores ecuatorianos tras intercepción de EEUU a un barco en el Pacífico El gobierno británico condena a manifestantes antiinmigrantes tras protestas por cruces del Canal Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct MORE World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES King Charles III clarifies status of Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, after their return to the UK Iran says improved ballistic missile shows it will take preemptive action against threats What to know as Canada’s retaliatory tariffs on $20 billion worth of US goods take effect Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES The poorest in the US can't find housing even as low-income units sit empty Party's over for crypto scammers who went on a spending spree after a $240 million bitcoin theft One attack, many Americas: Why 9/11 and its many griefs land differently 25 years later Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES Trump wants voters to pretend he’s on the ballot. The Republican Party is going along for the ride The GOP was confident about keeping its Senate majority. Now the fight for control is wide open LIVE Canada strikes back with tariffs on about $20 billion worth of US goods Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing SECTIONS NFL College football Top 25 Poll MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis TOP STORIES Veteran coaches surprised that stadium clock was not official clock in wild Michigan win Saturday Naomi Osaka exits US Open, but not before displaying one more swaggy fashion ensemble High school QBs face new reality as transfers dominate starting jobs at the top of college football Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES For Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman, 'Practical Magic 2' heals old wounds Celebrity birthdays for the week of June 25-July 1 El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Trump threatens Canadian jetmaker Bombardier, which has an extensive US footprint Jaguar Land Rover will cut 4,000 jobs to reduce costs and compete with China Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump claims US banks cannot operate in Canada. That's not true FACT FOCUS: Massive blackouts are unlikely if Canada stops exporting electricity to the US Posts falsely claim no airplane debris found at Pentagon on 9/11 FACT FOCUS: Texans listed as 'suspense voters' can still cast a ballot if they confirm their address False claim of human meat in McDonald’s factories stems from old hoax FACT FOCUS: Trump says he's ended eight wars. His numbers are off Oddities TOP STORIES British police try to track down theft of 70,000 pints worth of Guinness stout Ah, rats! Researchers say some other critter likely created Chicago's 'rat hole' sidewalk landmark Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Cavadores de tumbas húngaros compiten en concurso de velocidad para desafiar tabúes Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Photography Photo Essays SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES How a photographer captured a moment of hope in a devastated Nepal AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 At the Kaaba during Hajj, a photographer captures sense of unity and devotion Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Farmers turn to perennial grains as one solution to extreme weather Global warming will exceed limit, UN says in a report that maps path to get back below danger zone Carbon credit financing emerges as Africa’s biggest bet for expanding clean cooking Health TOP STORIES Cyclospora outbreak followed years of declining FDA foreign inspections Top US doctors offer updated flu and COVID vaccine recommendations, aiming to ease confusion A Kentucky man with a meat allergy was craving a burger. So he got into ostrich farming Endometriosis can elude diagnosis for years. What to know about the disease and new ways to find it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Tanning is getting hot again. Here's what it really does to your skin Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES 'Divorce-tok' fills social media as creators find audiences and support by sharing heartbreak AI chatbots are at risk of spreading government restrictions on online speech, a new study says One Tech Tip: Don't use rice for your device. Here's how to dry out your smartphone Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES Dolly Parton and Gloria Steinem's deaths deliver a double dose of grief for feminists When lunch is the main event, here's a 'Greek Out' take on halibut and halloumi skewers Why ordering takeout or calling the dog walker might lead to a happier relationship Religion TOP STORIES Pope Leo XIV unveils a fresco at the sanctuary where he prayed after his election last year Pope Leo XIV is known as 'Father Bob' among fellow Augustinians. Who are they? What to know about the Mount Kailash pilgrimage site after floods in Nepal and Tibet Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español Política de EEUU Deportes SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES El rey Carlos aclara el estatus del príncipe Enrique y Meghan tras su regreso al Reino Unido Localizan a 26 pescadores ecuatorianos tras intercepción de EEUU a un barco en el Pacífico El gobierno británico condena a manifestantes antiinmigrantes tras protestas por cruces del Canal Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct SECTIONS ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Politics What we know about Trump’s deal giving US access to vast oil reserves in Venezuela What we know about Trump’s deal giving US access to vast oil reserves in Venezuela 1 of 5 | Venezuelans reacted with outrage and skepticism to an oil deal announced by President Donald Trump on Friday night that would give the United States a stake in Venezuela’s vast oil reserves. Aside from a social media post by Trump, the White House has said little about what he calls “the biggest oil deal in world history.” (AP Video shot by: Juan Arraez) Read More 2 of 5 | A pedestrian walks past a mural featuring oil wells in Caracas, Venezuela, Saturday, Aug 29, 2026, a day after President Donald Trump announced a deal giving the United States a stake in Venezuela’s oil reserves. (AP Photo/Pedro Mattey) License this photo Read More 3 of 5 | Flames rise from flare stacks at the Amuay refinery in Los Taques, Venezuela, Jan. 14, 2026. (AP Photo/Matias Delacroix, File) License this photo Read More 4 of 5 | Venezuelans protest against President Donald Trump’s deal giving the United States a stake in Venezuela’s oil reserves in Caracas, Saturday, Aug 29, 2026. (AP Photo/Pedro Mattey) License this photo Read More 5 of 5 | President Donald Trump speaks during an event to present the Congressional Space Medal of Honor to Artemis II crew members, Friday, Aug. 28, 2026, at Johnson Space Center in Houston. (AP Photo/Mark Schiefelbein) License this photo Read More What we know about Trump’s deal giving US access to vast oil reserves in Venezuela Read More 1 of 5 Venezuelans reacted with outrage and skepticism to an oil deal announced by President Donald Trump on Friday night that would give the United States a stake in Venezuela’s vast oil reserves. Aside from a social media post by Trump, the White House has said little about what he calls “the biggest oil deal in world history.” (AP Video shot by: Juan Arraez) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 2 of 5 | A pedestrian walks past a mural featuring oil wells in Caracas, Venezuela, Saturday, Aug 29, 2026, a day after President Donald Trump announced a deal giving the United States a stake in Venezuela’s oil reserves. (AP Photo/Pedro Mattey) License this photo Read More 2 of 5 A pedestrian walks past a mural featuring oil wells in Caracas, Venezuela, Saturday, Aug 29, 2026, a day after President Donald Trump announced a deal giving the United States a stake in Venezuela’s oil reserves. (AP Photo/Pedro Mattey) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 3 of 5 | Flames rise from flare stacks at the Amuay refinery in Los Taques, Venezuela, Jan. 14, 2026. (AP Photo/Matias Delacroix, File) License this photo Read More 3 of 5 Flames rise from flare stacks at the Amuay refinery in Los Taques, Venezuela, Jan. 14, 2026. (AP Photo/Matias Delacroix, File) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 4 of 5 | Venezuelans protest against President Donald Trump’s deal giving the United States a stake in Venezuela’s oil reserves in Caracas, Saturday, Aug 29, 2026. (AP Photo/Pedro Mattey) License this photo Read More 4 of 5 Venezuelans protest against President Donald Trump’s deal giving the United States a stake in Venezuela’s oil reserves in Caracas, Saturday, Aug 29, 2026. (AP Photo/Pedro Mattey) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 5 of 5 | President Donald Trump speaks during an event to present the Congressional Space Medal of Honor to Artemis II crew members, Friday, Aug. 28, 2026, at Johnson Space Center in Houston. (AP Photo/Mark Schiefelbein) License this photo Read More 5 of 5 President Donald Trump speaks during an event to present the Congressional Space Medal of Honor to Artemis II crew members, Friday, Aug. 28, 2026, at Johnson Space Center in Houston. (AP Photo/Mark Schiefelbein) --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More By COLLIN BINKLEY , JUAN PABLO ARRÁEZ and REGINA GARCIA CANO Updated [hour]:[minute] [AMPM] [timezone], [monthFull] [day], [year] Leer en español --> Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. --> Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit WASHINGTON (AP) — Details are emerging about what President Donald Trump is calling “THE BIGGEST OIL DEAL IN WORLD HISTORY” in Venezuela . Trump said the agreement announced Friday night would give the United States a stake in Venezuela’s vast oil reserves , a step toward his goal of extracting energy from the country after American forces captured then-President Nicolás Maduro in a middle-of-the-night raid in January and brought him to New York to face federal drug trafficking charges . Venezuela’s acting president, Delcy Rodríguez , described the deal as a step toward economic recovery that will modernize the country’s oil industry. In a televised address to the nation late Saturday, Rodríguez insisted Venezuela’s sovereignty is secure and said she wants the country to become a global energy powerhouse. Late Monday, the White House released a fact sheet about the arrangement. A look at what is known and unknown: What are the terms? The U.S. government and a private operator in Venezuela formed a new company that was given the rights to untapped oil fields for 100 years. A statement from Rodríguez said the deal involves the development of 17 fields with a proven potential of 65 billion barrels. It said the agreement could draw $100 billion in investment into Venezuela’s oil industry and yield over $209 billion in taxes for Caracas. Related Stories Houthi strikes set fire to Saudi oil sites and wound 73, plus other key Mideast news 2 MIN READ 11 Oil prices keep rising and weigh on Wall Street 2 MIN READ Houthi attacks on Saudi Arabia ignite fires at oil facilities and wound 73 people 4 MIN READ 24 The private operator is North America Blue Energy Partners, owned by Alejandro Betancourt, the White House confirmed Monday. The company currently produces about 200,000 barrels a day, which makes it the second-largest private operator in Venezuela behind Chevron, according to a source who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to release the information. NABEP already operates fields in the area and has infrastructure there, including pipelines and rigs, the source said. Read More Trump said the agreement was negotiated by Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth and Rodríguez. Sign up for the Ground Game Newsletter: Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. Email address Sign up By checking this box, you agree to AP's Terms of Use and acknowledge that AP may collect and use your data pursuant to our Privacy Policy . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. The deal will give the Pentagon a 35% ownership stake in the company, and the State Department will get a guarantee to purchase 20% of the output at cost. American purchases of the oil will go toward the U.S. strategic oil reserves along with the military, according to a U.S. official who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly and spoke on the condition of anonymity. The company would be the second largest corporate holder of proven reserves after Saudi Aramco, according to the U.S. official. The administration appears to be trying to find ways to make it easier for the private sector to invest in Venezuela’s industry through the deal, said Bob McNally, who was an energy adviser in former President George W. Bush’s White House. “However, investors will remain cautious even if the terms of the deal, once released, pass legal muster. A future president could withdraw, and Caracas has twice thrown foreign investors out,” McNally said. Amos Hochstein, who was a senior energy adviser to former President Joe Biden, said the deal is uncharted territory from a legal and diplomatic perspective. It carries tremendous risk for companies thinking about doing business under the new arrangement, he said. Democrats could challenge the deal if they regain power in Washington, as could future administrations in Venezuela. “There will be a lot of challenges to what was just announced,” Hochstein said. “I can only say, if it were me, I’d be nervous. And if I’m back in my old job in the next administration, then they should be nervous.” Will gas prices go down? Probably not any time soon. Trump says the deal will help lower gas prices for Americans. That is an important objective for the Republican president as the Iran war slows the shipping of Persian Gulf oil and keeps prices elevated months before November elections in the United States. But experts have repeatedly warned that Venezuela’s dilapidated oil infrastructure will take years and billions of dollars to repair. A substantial boost in production is not expected to happen quickly. The deal could be “helpful in the long run, but it’s not going to do anything to change the price of gasoline at the retail station for Labor Day weekend,” said Amy Myers Jaffe, director of the Energy, Climate Justice and Sustainability Lab at New York University. Neither side made clear who would pay for infrastructure investments and at what cost. For now, the war with Iran is having more impact on gas prices than the agreement with Venezuela. Oil prices rose Sunday after the U.S. attacked Iranian rocket launchers on the Strait of Hormuz. The price for a barrel of U.S. oil was up 1.8% to $84.94. The average price of gas in the U.S. was $4.08 per gallon on Monday, according to AAA. That was up from $3.19 a year ago. Kevin Book, managing director at ClearView Energy Partners, said the oil industry is awaiting clarity on the deal’s details. Venezuela has room to increase its oil production, he said — in the past it produced more than 2.5 million barrels a day above current levels — but investments of this scale don’t happen quickly. “It’s going to take time — many years — to deploy that much capital and produce the kind of incremental results that history suggests possible,” Book said. How will Venezuelans react? Some in Venezuela considered it a betrayal of what their government has stated repeatedly for decades: Venezuelan resources are for Venezuela, and leaders would not allow the U.S. government access to those resources. At a market in eastern Caracas on Saturday, Douglas Borjas said he was upset about the announcement. “I think they’re doing it to cling to power,” he said of Venezuela’s leaders. “It’s like, ‘I’m giving you a vast amount of petroleum as long as you leave me alone here in power.’” He added: “The Venezuelan people deserve better. Venezuela has resources that can be exploited, but for the benefit of the people, not for the benefit of the corrupt elite.” Harvard University professor Ricardo Hausmann, a former Venezuelan planning minister, called it a “shameful deal.” “Venezuelans will not respect this illegitimate deal and no major US oil company will take it seriously because they know it will not last,” Hausmann said on social media, adding that Rodríguez “has no legitimacy or constitutional power to commit Venezuela to any such deal.” In her national address, Rodríguez pushed back on some early criticism. “One thing must be absolutely clear: Venezuela retains ownership and sovereignty over its resources,” Rodríguez said. She said the goal is to reach other agreements with transnational private companies such as Chevron, Repsol and Shell. She added, “We want to be an energy powerhouse, a major oil producer, a significant gas exporter, and a major national petrochemical developer.” What’s the reaction on Capitol Hill? It is unclear whether Congress will play a role in the arrangement, but lawmakers from both parties were quick to weigh in. Trump allies called it a win. Sen. Bernie Moreno, R-Ohio, said it was a historic deal that helps both countries. “If it were up to DC Democrats, Maduro would still be in power, Venezuelan oil would be going to China at half price, and the people of Venezuela would be getting robbed by a corrupt regime,” Moreno wrote on social media. It was condemned by Democrats who said Maduro’s capture was a means to this end. Sen. Tim Kaine, D-Va., said Trump was always after Venezuela’s oil, branding it “corruption at epic scale.” “Will prices come down for Americans? Who knows but likely not as much as Trump has forced them up thru his idiotic Iran War,” Kaine said on social media. Sen. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md., said Trump “put our service members at risk to get Venezuelan oil for his billionaire buddies.” What questions remain? Many important details remain unclear, including who will cover necessary investments and how America’s stake in the company breaks down. The U.S. will get 55% of the company’s effective output, but it was not clear what portion of that comes from an ownership stake and how much comes from the right to buy oil at cost. It also is unclear how the industry will react. Persuading big American oil companies to return to the region could prove a challenge given the political uncertainty and damaged infrastructure. Chevron, the only U.S. oil company actively producing in Venezuela, declined to comment. Separately from Trump’s announcement, Chevron already had been in talks to expand investment in the country. Exxon Mobil also declined to comment. Reflecting the lack of details from the administration, the American Petroleum Institute, the oil industry’s largest lobbying group, declined to comment Monday on Trump’s proposed deal. The group said it is continuing to review information as it becomes available. David Oxley, chief climate and commodities economist at Capital Economics, said that on its face, the deal could double U.S. oil reserves and reduce dependence on crude oil from Canada and Mexico. But Oxley, writing in a commentary, cautioned that there are logistical hurdles and said the value of Venezuela’s reserves may have been exaggerated under former President Hugo Chavez. Even with legal and security guarantees, it is not clear that U.S. oil companies “would be eager to invest,’’ he wrote, noting that “there simply might be more enticing commercial opportunities on offer elsewhere.’’ ___ Arráez and Garcia Cano reported from Caracas, Venezuela. Associated Press writers Matthew Daly and Moriah Balingit and AP Economics Writer Paul Wiseman in Washington contributed to this report. COLLIN BINKLEY Binkley covers the White House and education policy for The Associated Press. He is based in Washington and joined the AP in 2015. twitter mailto Most read King Charles III clarifies status of Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, after their return to the UK 1 MIN READ 246 Germany’s Merz shocked by far-right state election triumph but doubles down on unpopular reforms 5 MIN READ 591 Federal investigators probe Amazon cargo jet’s fiery runway crash that killed 5 in Miami 5 MIN READ 165 The poorest in the US can’t find housing even as low-income units sit empty 6 MIN READ 859 Iran says improved ballistic missile shows it will take preemptive action against threats 3 MIN READ 175 The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct SECTIONS ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. twitter instagram facebook 