 Inside the GOP hemp wars Skip to main content Newsletters Axios Local Show Axios Pro Axios Live The Axios Show Login Axios All topics Axios Search Updated Aug 6, 2026 - Politics & Policy Inside the GOP hemp wars Stef W. Kight email (opens in new window) sms (opens in new window) facebook (opens in new window) twitter (opens in new window) linkedin (opens in new window) bluesky (opens in new window) Add Axios on Google Add Axios as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. Add Axios on Google Sen. Ted Budd at a Capitol Hill hearing on May 19. Photo: Al Drago/Bloomberg via Getty Images President Trump personally intervened Tuesday night in a dispute over delaying a ban on hemp-derived THC products, calling a key senator. Why it matters: THC clearly matters to the White House ahead of the midterms. Driving the news: In a wide-ranging call, Trump laid out the argument to Sen. Ted Budd (R-N.C.) for why the White House supports a provision in the stopgap funding bill that would delay the ban by about a month, according to a source familiar with the call. The reason given: The White House is working on a broader framework addressing THC products for medicinal uses, and officials are concerned the ban could complicate those plans. Budd has filed an amendment to strip out the White House-backed provision. It would only need 50 votes to pass, the parliamentarian ruled on Thursday, a Senate aide familiar with the matter told Axios. Zoom in: The dispute boiled over during a closed-door Senate GOP lunch Wednesday, where several Republican senators clashed with White House liaison James Braid, according to three sources familiar with the meeting. Sens. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), Pete Ricketts (R-Neb.) and Budd argued forcefully for allowing the ban to take effect in November as planned. Concerns centered on children's easy access to hemp-derived THC products, which Cotton called "gas-station marijuana candy." Braid, in response , committed to no further delays — beyond the one included in the short-term funding measure. Support has grown for Budd's amendment, which now has nine cosponsors. The intrigue: A delay in the ban would reportedly benefit White House Chief of Staff Susie Wiles' son-in-law, who owns a company that sells intoxicating hemp products. Zoom out: Senate Republicans are hashing out last-minute internal debates as leaders haggle with Democrats to expedite votes and kick off August recess on schedule. Another flashpoint has emerged over Sen. Ted Cruz's (R-Texas) college sports bill. Some GOP senators are questioning whether the legislation could preempt state laws barring transgender women from competing in women's sports, according to two sources familiar with the conversation. Senators specifically raised concerns that Riley Gaines would oppose the bill. Cruz assured senators that Gaines was no longer opposed. Thune filed cloture on the sports bill on Wednesday, opening the possibility of a vote this week. Editor's note: This story has been updated with additional reporting. email (opens in new window) sms (opens in new window) facebook (opens in new window) twitter (opens in new window) linkedin (opens in new window) bluesky (opens in new window) Add Axios on Google What to read next Smarter, faster on what matters. Explore Axios Newsletters About Axios Advertise with us Careers Contact us Newsletters Axios Live Axios HQ Privacy policy Terms of use Axios Homepage Axios Media Inc., 2026 