 Rogue House Democrats face growing internal push for "consequences" Skip to main content Newsletters Axios Local Show Axios Pro Axios Live The Axios Show Login Axios All topics Axios Search Sep 2, 2026 - Politics & Policy Rogue House Democrats face growing push for "consequences" Andrew Solender email (opens in new window) sms (opens in new window) facebook (opens in new window) twitter (opens in new window) linkedin (opens in new window) bluesky (opens in new window) Add Axios on Google Add Axios as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. Add Axios on Google House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries speaks to reporters at the U.S. Capitol on Aug. 31. Photo: Finn Gomez/Getty Images Two centrist House Democrats who voted to help Republicans get a procedural motion across the finish line are now facing down possible punishment from party leaders who say they were blindsided by the move. Why it matters: House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.) is taking an uncharacteristically aggressive public approach to the defections, to the thrill of some of his members. "I 'effing love it," said Rep. Jared Huffman (D-Calif.). "We have to draw a bright line here and kick some ass or this will be the new norm." Another House Democrat said Jeffries and his deputies "are right to make an example" of the two rogue centrists. Catch up quick: Reps. Jared Golden (D-Maine) and Marie Gluesenkamp Perez (D-Wash.) voted with Republicans to pass what is called a "rule" — a procedural measure that sets the terms for House debate on a package of bills. While lawmakers often break away from party leaders on standard legislative votes on legislation, these procedural votes almost always fall along party lines. The legislation advanced by the measure included a Republican resolution denouncing "socialism in all its forms," which infuriated many Democrats because it also included language praising the GOP's SAVE America Act. What they're saying: Jeffries, in a joint statement with Minority Whip Katherine Clark (D-Mass.) and Democratic Caucus chair Pete Aguilar (D-Calif.) released Tuesday night, signaled plans to take action. "The decision by two of our colleagues to blindside the entire House Democratic Caucus and join with the Republican majority to pass a procedural rule on the brink of failing represents a significant breach of trust," the trio said. "It is an action that necessitates a serious response, and we have asked the Committee on Caucus Rules to take this up in short order." The other side: Golden defended his vote by noting that the rule also contained a bill he co-authored to shield lobstermen from federal regulations protecting whales. Golden argued that leadership should not have been surprised by his vote and that his intentions were neither veiled nor unpredictable, telling Axios: "They couldn't possibly think I would vote against my own bill, right?" Gluesenkamp Perez also cited Golden's bill protecting lobstermen as the reason for her vote in a statement. Neither office immediately responded to requests for comment on the joint leadership statement. What we're hearing: A "general conversation about consequences" sprang up among members almost immediately after the vote on Tuesday, a second House Democrat, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, told Axios. The lawmaker said that while only "a few people" explicitly raised the idea of punishment, the "sentiment is wider spread." Democratic leadership is "upset that they put all of the front liners in the position to take hard votes. Very upset," said a third House Democrat. Several lawmakers told Axios that one idea being circulated is stripping Golden and Gluesenkamp Perez of their committee assignments. Between the lines: Golden and Gluesenkamp Perez are facing intense anger from colleagues, who feel they snatched a potential win from the party with just a few months until the November midterm elections. "Golden and MGP not only broke trust with our leadership and the caucus writ-large, it was also a deeply selfish act," said the first House Democrat. "They threw their frontline and other colleagues under the bus. There are votes that could have been avoided had the rule failed that members will now have to take a vote on." Reality check: Even members who are furious with Golden and Gluesenkamp Perez acknowledge any action would likely be symbolic and, could, in the case of the latter, backfire politically. Golden is retiring come Jan. 3, while Gluesenkamp Perez is running for reelection in one of the most Republican-leaning House districts held by a Democrat. A moderate House Democrat also told Axios that the action outlined in Jeffries' statement represents a "pretty strong response" and "thus needs to be consistent and dished out accordingly to all factions of caucus." Between the lines: While Jeffries and Clark were together on the joint statement, sources said there was significant tension between their offices in the immediate aftermath of Tuesday's vote. Jeffries' initial reaction to the vote was to point to Clark, whose job is to get members in line on votes, telling reporters, "You'll have to talk to Katherine." A Clark spokesperson stressed that, like Jeffries, Clark did not get a heads-up about how Golden and Gluesenkamp Perez planned to vote. The bottom line: "I think if you throw all of your colleagues under the bus by voting with the other party on a procedural rule vote, you should lose your committee assignments and get reassigned to the arts and crafts committee," said Huffman. email (opens in new window) sms (opens in new window) facebook (opens in new window) twitter (opens in new window) linkedin (opens in new window) bluesky (opens in new window) Add Axios on Google What to read next Smarter, faster on what matters. Explore Axios Newsletters About Axios Advertise with us Careers Contact us Newsletters Axios Live Axios HQ Privacy policy Terms of use Axios Homepage Axios Media Inc., 2026 