At least 5 dead, 5 injured after Amazon cargo plane overruns runway near Miami International Airport, officials say - CBS News

At least five people are dead and five others are injured after an Amazon cargo plane overran a runway near Miami International Airport and struck several vehicles Sunday, officials said. The crash prompted a ground stop at the airport as emergency crews responded to the scene and the Federal Aviation Administration launched an investigation.
Miami-Dade Aviation confirmed it was a Prime Air plane and that it overran the airport's diagonal runway. The plane is disabled at the northwest end of the airport, officials said.
Miami-Dade Fire Rescue (MDFR) said the plane hit several vehicles near the 2100 block of Northwest 42nd Avenue. The plane caught fire, and firefighters are now working to douse the flames. Multiple patients were confirmed, and MDFR said more than 60 of its units were responding. The Miami-Dade Sheriff's Office said it is also responding.
Miami-Dade Fire Rescue battles fire after plane crash, rescues victims
MDFR said when the crews arrived, they found the plane with heavy smoke and flames showing had stopped beyond the airport's operational boundary. Using foam and specialized airport firefighting units, MDFR crews fought to extinguish the fire. Crews also conducted search and rescue operations for the pilots and co-pilots inside the cockpit while locating and assessing patients throughout the scene, MDFR said.
One person was trapped under an involved vehicle and was extricated by specialized MDFR technical rescue personnel, officials said.
There were a total of 10 patients, and MDFR transported five patients by ground. Three were transported to a local trauma center. The other two were assessed and transported to local area hospitals.
Fuel leak reported at crash site
MDFR said there is an active fuel leak "occurring off of the aircraft that is being mitigated." Residents and motorists are urged to avoid the area of 67th Avenue and 25th Street, Commissioner Natalie Milian Orbis said.
Amazon responds to crash
"We can confirm that an Amazon Air plane operated by 21 Air experienced an incident while attempting to land at Miami International Airport [Sunday]," Kelly Nantel, an Amazon spokesperson, said. "This is a fast-moving situation and we're still gathering details. We're working closely with local authorities and officials to understand exactly what happened. Right now, our absolute priority is the safety, well-being, and care of everyone involved. We're doing everything we can to support those affected."
FAA investigating plane crash at Miami International Airport
The Air Traffic Control System Command Center (ATCSSC), part of the FAA, issued the ground stop around 2:30 p.m. ET.
The FAA confirmed that a Boeing 767-300 that departed from San Juan, Puerto Rico, was involved. The agency said it is investigating. The NTSB has also launched a go team to investigate.
Sean Duffy, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Transportation, shared a brief statement on X, advising travelers of possible delays and cancelations.
The ground stop impacts domestic flights to and from nearly every part of the United States. Two of MIA's four runways have been since reopened, according to Greg Chin, the Communications Director for the Miami-Dade Aviation Department.
CBS News Miami will update this article as new information is provided.