Fed minutes June 2026: officials split on rates
Skip Navigation
Markets
Pre-Markets
U.S. Markets
Currencies
Prediction Markets
Cryptocurrency
Futures & Commodities
Bonds
Funds & ETFs
Business
Economy
Finance
Health & Science
Media
Real Estate
Energy
Climate
Transportation
Investigations
Industrials
Retail
Wealth
Sports
Life
Small Business
Investing
Personal Finance
Fintech
Financial Advisors
Options Action
ETF Street
Buffett Archive
Earnings
Trader Talk
Tech
Cybersecurity
AI
Enterprise
Internet
Media
Mobile
Social Media
CNBC Disruptor 50
Tech Guide
Politics & Policy
White House
Policy
Defense
Congress
Expanding Opportunity
Video
Latest Video
Full Episodes
Livestream
Live Audio
Live TV Schedule
CNBC Podcasts
CEO Interviews
CNBC Documentaries
Digital Originals
Watchlist
Investing Club
Trust Portfolio
Analysis
Trade Alerts
Meeting Videos
Homestretch
Jim's Columns
Education
Subscribe
PRO
Pro News
Josh Brown
Mike Santoli
Calls of the Day
My Portfolio
Livestream
Full Episodes
Stock Screener
Market Forecast
Options Investing
Chart Investing
Subscribe
Livestream
Menu
Make It
select
USA
INTL
Livestream
Search quotes, news & videos
Livestream
Watchlist
SIGN IN
Create free account
Markets
Business
Investing
Tech
Politics & Policy
Video
Watchlist
Investing Club
PRO
Livestream
Menu
Federal Reserve
Fed officials were split on direction of interest rates at last meeting, minutes show
Published Wed, Jul 8 2026
2:00 PM EDT
Updated Wed, Jul 8 2026
3:05 PM EDT
Jeff Cox
@jeff.cox.7528
@JeffCoxCNBCcom
WATCH LIVE
Key Points
Fed policymakers were split on the future of interest rates at their June meeting, with officials offering competing cases for hikes or cuts, according to minutes released Wednesday.
The meeting summary provided few details of what new Chairman Kevin Warsh described as a "family fight" over policy direction.
True to Warsh's disdain for forward guidance, the meeting summary provided little information on where policymakers stand for the future, noting that decisions would be made based on "incoming information."
watch now
VIDEO
2:16
02:16
Fed officials were split on direction of interest rates at last meeting, minutes show
Power Lunch
Federal Reserve officials were split last month about the future of interest rates, with policymakers entertaining scenarios in either direction, according to meeting minutes released Wednesday.
In
Kevin Warsh
's first meeting June 16-17 as chairman of the Federal Open Market Committee, participants saw outcomes where inflation could ease and allow lower rates, while others envisioned a scenario where price increases stay elevated and lead to hikes.
During his post-meeting news conference, Warsh
billed the debate as a "family fight"
that ended with the committee unanimously
voting
to keep the Fed's benchmark funds rate anchored in a range between 3.5%-3.75%, where it has been for all of 2026.
However,
the minutes
did not elaborate on any drama that had taken place and outlined divergent views from members without a bias to which way the committee was leaning. The dot-plot grid of individual members' expectations, in which Warsh did not participate, narrowly tilted toward one rate hike this year, then a cut in each of the following two years.
Asked to judge their most likely scenario, "many participants indicated that the appropriate level of the federal funds rate would be within or slightly below the current target range at the end of this year," the minutes stated.
watch now
VIDEO
11:46
11:46
Watch CNBC's Fed roundtable discuss the latest FOMC minutes
Power Lunch
At the same time, the document also noted that "many other participants, however, assessed that the appropriate level of the federal funds rate would be above the current target range at the end of this year."
"Participants noted that their future policy actions would depend on incoming information," the minutes said.
Inflation has been on the rise for much of the past year, fueled earlier by President Donald Trump's tariffs then exacerbated by the Iran war. Economists, though, have been split as to its durability, particularly since energy prices have plunged in recent weeks.
FOMC officials expressed "that inflation would remain elevated in the near term and then begin to decline as the effects of tariffs and energy price increases wane and other supply disruptions related to the closure of the Strait of Hormuz diminish. Participants judged that the risks to the inflation outlook were still tilted to the upside."
Participants also noted the impact of artificial intelligence, observing that the "ongoing strong demand for AI infrastructure would likely sustain upward pressure on prices for technology products and electricity." Warsh has stated he believes AI ultimately will be disinflationary due to productivity gains.
Markets reacted little to the minutes release, with stock market futures holding negative and Treasury yields rising.
"There's some ambiguity in the minutes, suggesting several competing views on policy," wrote Jeffrey Roach, chief economist at LPL Financial. "If we can tease out any forward guidance from the minutes, it would be the committee is working through a wide range of scenarios and will not commit to a specific scenario until the incoming data provides necessary clarity."
The meeting summary, which at 14 pages was somewhat shorter though not dramatically so than the typical release, followed Warsh's repeated statements that Fed officials should communicate less about their future intentions.
Keeping with that, the post-meeting statement was about one-third the size typical of the communique. Officials at the meeting seemed to approve of the tighter message.
"A number of participants noted that it was an opportune time to consider significant changes to the FOMC's postmeeting statement," the minutes said. "A majority of participants remarked that they saw advantages in shortening the statement."
The document otherwise provided broad strokes of what happened during the two-day session in which the Federal Open Market Committee approved the terse statement saying it was keeping its benchmark interest rate unchanged and was resolved to restore "price stability" to the U.S. economy.
watch now
VIDEO
4:01
04:01
Market doesn't care much about what this Fed is doing, says Jefferies' David Zervos
Power Lunch
Notably, it removed language that had indicated a prior easing bias, as "most participants emphasized that they preferred not to repeat the Language."
The post-meeting statement eliminated boilerplate language to describe economic conditions and the committee's approach to achieving its twin goals of low inflation and full employment.
The minutes come less than two months into Warsh's term as chairman, a position to which he was nominated by
Trump
. For years. the president had criticized Warsh's predecessor, Jerome Powell, for not pushing interest rates lower.
Since taking the reins, Warsh has pledged to revamp the Fed's operations in a variety of manners.
At the June news conference, he outlined five task forces that will address individual topics, including communication. The minutes simply stated the creation of the groups, noting that only "some participants commented that they welcomed the opportunity to review the Committee's communications tools and practices."
Since then, Warsh had made only one public appearance. At a European Central Bank forum in Portugal, the central bank leader was largely circumspect about where he thinks policy should go, consistent with his distaste for so-called forward guidance on monetary policy intentions.
Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news.
Subscribe to CNBC PRO
Subscribe to Investing Club
Licensing & Reprints
CNBC Councils
Select Personal Finance
Join the CNBC Panel
Closed Captioning
Digital Products
News Releases
Internships
Corrections
About CNBC
Site Map
Podcasts
Careers
Help
Contact
News Tips
Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you.
Get In Touch
CNBC Newsletters
Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox
Sign Up Now
Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services.
Advertise With Us
Please Contact Us
Ad Choices
Privacy Policy
Your Privacy Choices
CA Notice
Terms of Service
©
2026
Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company.
Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers
Data also provided by
