Jobs report: Women accounted for almost all of August payroll gains Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Economy Women accounted for almost all of job gains in August. Here's why Published Fri, Sep 4 20261:49 PM EDTUpdated 4 Hours Ago Alex Harring@alex_harring Deena Zaidi WATCH LIVE Key Points Women accounted for virtually all of August's payroll gains, according to Bureau of Labor Statistics data. The male contribution was around 40 times smaller in the month. It's the latest sign of the growing power of women in the labor market. Jobseekers speak with a recruiter during the Catalyst Career Group Dallas Job Fair in Dallas, Texas, US, on Wednesday, July 29, 2026. Dylan Hollingsworth | Bloomberg | Getty Images There's a group to thank for August's blockbuster jobs report: women. Women accounted for 158,000 — or around 98% — of the 162,000 jobs added in the month, according to a CNBC analysis of data released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Men represent the remaining 4,000 net positions added, meaning their contribution to overall payroll growth was nearly 40 times smaller. The Economic Security Project, a progressive nonprofit, first pointed out the anomaly in Friday's data. With Friday's report, the gap between the number of jobs held by women compared with men climbed to levels never before seen, according to Laura Ullrich, director of economic research at the Indeed Hiring Lab. "We are in the midst of a shift," Ullrich said. "It is changing right before our eyes." Women outperform Friday's report offers the latest signal of how much momentum women are gaining in an otherwise lackluster job market. Compared with 12 months ago, the BLS found that the level of employed women has grown by more than 870,000 on a seasonally adjusted basis. The male gender has lost nearly 1.5 million employed workers over the same timeframe. Part of the recent outperformance among women could stem from what sectors are driving labor force expansion. Healthcare, considered the engine of labor market growth for more than a year, continued adding positions in August. Upwards of four out of every five workers in the industry are women. The local government and education sector roared back to life in August, accounting for 42,000 jobs — or about a fourth of the total net gain. Women hold close to three-quarters of positions related to education, training and libraries. But Friday's report also showed their hiring prowess in sectors like manufacturing that are considered male-dominated, Ullrich said. Annastills | Istock | Getty Images Crosscurrents The seasonally adjusted unemployment rate for women came in at 3.9% in August, down 0.4 percentage points from the same month a year prior. The male rate jumped to 4.4%, equal to where it sat in August 2025. Strength among women helped Friday's overall nonfarm payrolls figure blow past expectations for August. The 162,000-role expansion was more than triple what economists forecasted. To be sure, Heather Long, Navy Federal Credit Union's chief economist, noted that month-to-month data by gender can be volatile in a Friday social media post. Instead, she said to focus on longer-term trends tied to gender. Long said those trends show a "mom-cession," a term used to describe the phenomena of mothers of young children leaving the workforce. Because women tend to earn less than men, Ullrich said winning a higher share of jobs could mean companies are focusing hiring on lower-wage roles. Given that women are more likely to have multiple jobs, Ullrich said some of the gains could stem from workers who are stretching themselves thin. "You could look at it and say, 'Yay, women,'" Ullrich said. But, "I don't think it's necessarily a positive story for women overall." Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by