Private payrolls rose by 38,000 in August, than expected, ADP reports Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Economy Private payrolls rose by 38,000 in August, less than expected, ADP reports Published Wed, Sep 2 2026 8:15 AM EDT Updated 5 Hours Ago Jeff Cox @jeff.cox.7528 @JeffCoxCNBCcom WATCH LIVE Key Points Private companies added 38,000 jobs in August, down from 46,000 and below the estimate for 47,000, for the slowest month since January, according to ADP. Three categories accounted for most of the job growth: education and health services, leisure and hospitality and construction. Manufacturing saw a loss of 17,000 jobs. The report comes ahead of the BLS nonfarm payrolls count, due out Friday. watch now VIDEO 0:42 00:42 Private payrolls rose by 38,000 in August, fewer than expected, ADP reports Squawk Box Private U.S. companies added jobs at a slightly slower-than-expected pace in August, with gains concentrated heavily in healthcare and a few other industries, ADP reported Wednesday. The payrolls processing firm said firms added 38,000 workers, fewer than the upwardly revised 46,000 in July and below the Dow Jones consensus estimate for 47,000. Though job creation held positive, August was the smallest gain since January and reflective of a broader slowdown in the labor market. Moreover, most of the jobs came from three sectors, with multiple others showing declines. Education and health services added 45,000 to lead all categories, with the latter group being at the forefront of employment growth. Leisure and hospitality added 16,000 positions and construction was up 12,000. Outside of that, though, there were few growth areas. Manufacturing lost 17,000 jobs, professional and business services was off 16,000, and both natural resources and mining as well as trade, transportation and utilities reported declines of 5,000. Almost all of the gains came from big business, with companies employing 500 or more workers adding 34,000 while those with fewer than 50 employees rose by 3,000. ADP's numbers also showed that pay gains held steady for the month. The firm added a feature in August in which it broke down growth between base and gross pay, the latter including tips, commissions, bonuses and other earnings. For those staying in their jobs, base pay rose 3% from a year ago while gross pay increased 4.4%, both unchanged from July. For all workers, the respective increases were 3.2% and 4.7%. The ADP report serves as a precursor to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' nonfarm payrolls release, due out Friday, which is expected to show an increase of 53,000, after the 23,000 decline in July. The unemployment rate is forecast to hold at 4.1%. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by