What strong jobs data means for rates — plus, an out-of-favor trade shines this week Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu What strong jobs data means for rates — plus, an out-of-favor trade shines this week Published Fri, Sep 4 20262:45 PM EDTUpdated 3 Hours Ago Jeff Marks@jeffmarkscnbc Every weekday, the CNBC Investing Club with Jim Cramer releases the Homestretch — an actionable afternoon update, just in time for the last hour of trading on Wall Street. Stocks dipped on Friday following the strong August employment report. Still, the S & P 500 was on track for a positive week. Nonfarm payrolls increased by 162,000, compared to expectations of 53,000. There were also positive combined revisions of 55,000 for June and July. Notably, the 44,000 positive revision for July flipped the month from a 23,000 loss to a 21,000 gain. The unemployment rate last month was unchanged at 4.1%, while the labor force participation rate nudged up to 61.6%. Last month, the market took the bad July report as good news, and on Friday, it took the good August report as bad news simply because of what it means for monetary policy expectations. The probability of an interest rate hike after the Federal Reserve's September 15-16 meeting is now up to nearly 60% compared to 50% on Thursday, 57% one week ago, and 58% one month ago, according to CME FedWatch. Hike or no hike, we always prefer to see a strong jobs report over a weak one because it's better for the economy. When the labor market is healthy, more people are finding jobs, and wages are rising. We won't root for the opposite. AI buildout stocks were a bright spot amid their rough patch. Three of the five best-performing stocks in the portfolio this week were semiconductors, with Micron , Intel , and Nvidia all gaining about 6%. A hyperscaler, Meta Platforms , was the fourth best with a gain of roughly 5% as investors circled back after last week's positive teen addiction settlement and decided to focus on a new update to its Muse Spark model. The fifth-best in the portfolio was Cardinal Health , which Jim Cramer profiled on Wednesday's Mad Money. The losers were a mixed bag . Palo Alto Networks fell 10% this week even though the premier cybersecurity company topped Wall Street expectations for the quarter and provided a better-than-expected outlook for its new fiscal year, driven by increased customer engagement amid AI-related concerns. Our next three worst performers — DuPont , FedEx Freight , and Honeywell Technologies — were victims of rising oil prices (FedEx Freight on the surge in diesel ) and the ongoing conflict in the Middle East (DuPont and Honeywell have revenue exposure there). Fifth worst was Broadcom , which received a lukewarm reaction to bullish AI revenue guidance due to concerns about the company losing share in Alphabet 's custom chip program and whether it is too reliant on Anthropic and OpenAI. The big corporate event in the portfolio next week is Apple 's new product launch event Wednesday, the first one led by new CEO John Ternus. The expectation is that Apple will announce a new foldable iPhone as well as other product updates. Apple's pricing strategy for new devices amid rising memory costs will be a conversation topic in the days that follow. There are a bunch of Wall Street conferences to tune into and transcripts to read. Conference season gives management teams a chance to update investors on how the quarter is progressing and shape expectations ahead of earnings. No portfolio companies report earnings next week, but some notables include Casey's, Chewy, AeroVironment, American Eagle Outfitters, Macy's, Oracle, Adobe, and Kroger. On the economic data side , two of the government's key inflation reports — the producer price index on Thursday and the consumer price index on Friday — will be scrutinized. Recall, a day ago, stocks and bonds rallied after Fed Governor Christopher Waller said he's in favor of keeping rates steady as long as there are no surprises in the upcoming inflation data. While Friday's strong jobs report gives the Fed some cover to hike at its September meeting, tame inflation reports could spark a case for no change. (See here for a full list of the stocks in Jim Cramer's Charitable Trust.) As a subscriber to the CNBC Investing Club with Jim Cramer, you will receive a trade alert before Jim makes a trade. Jim waits 45 minutes after sending a trade alert before buying or selling a stock in his charitable trust's portfolio. If Jim has talked about a stock on CNBC TV, he waits 72 hours after issuing the trade alert before executing the trade. THE ABOVE INVESTING CLUB INFORMATION IS SUBJECT TO OUR TERMS AND CONDITIONS AND PRIVACY POLICY , TOGETHER WITH OUR DISCLAIMER . NO FIDUCIARY OBLIGATION OR DUTY EXISTS, OR IS CREATED, BY VIRTUE OF YOUR RECEIPT OF ANY INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH THE INVESTING CLUB. NO SPECIFIC OUTCOME OR PROFIT IS GUARANTEED. More In Homestretch We're lifting our price targets on 2 stocks that have shaken off AI disruption concerns Jeff Marks We're upgrading Palo Alto as shares tumble 10% despite strong earnings Jeff Marks We're adding 2 stocks to our Bullpen watchlist because they meet these criteria Jeff Marks Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by