Treasury yields rise after U.S. jobs report alters rate expectations Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Bonds 2-year yield rises to highest since January 2025 after hot jobs report boosts expectations that the Fed could raise rates Published Fri, Sep 4 20264:35 AM EDTUpdated 2 Hours Ago Davis Giangiulio@in/davis-giangiulio@GiangiulioDavis Sean Conlon@SeanAustin96 Hugh Leask WATCH LIVE In this article US10Y US2Y US30Y Follow your favorite stocksCREATE FREE ACCOUNT Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on August 14, 2019 in New York City. Spencer Platt | Getty Images Treasury yields rose in trading Friday, as investors digested a stronger-than-expected jobs report for the month of August and weighed the impact it may have on the Federal Reserve's decisions on interest rates. The shorter-dated 2-year Treasury note yield, which tends to react in line with short-term Federal Reserve interest rate decisions, rose more than 4 basis points to 4.377%. It reached its highest level since January 2025 during the day. The key 10-year Treasury note yield — the main benchmark for mortgages, auto loans and credit card debt — was up more than 2 basis points at 4.784%. The longer-dated 30-year Treasury note yield, which is often sensitive to geopolitical events, was little changed at 5.245%. One basis point equals 0.01%, or 1/100th of 1%, and yields and prices move inversely to one another. The U.S. economy added 162,000 jobs in August, above consensus estimates for 53,000, according to economists polled by Dow Jones. A hot labor market and sticky inflation — as price growth on an annual basis remains above the Fed's 2% target — could give the central bank more cover to raise interest rates at its September meeting. Traders increased their bets on a Fed rate hike at the Sept. 15-16 meeting. The probability of a quarter percentage point increase rose to 58%, or about 9 percentage points higher than a day ago, according to the CME Group's FedWatch tool. "Fed officials have characterized the employment markets as stable but today's stellar jobs report shows hiring is surprisingly robust given the high level of energy prices and the ongoing affordability crisis," said Chris Rupkey, chief economist at FWDBONDS. "The only fear is the Fed itself if it thinks economic demand is hot enough to need a rate hike in a couple of weeks." Investors will now have all eyes on fresh inflation data, due out next week, as markets look for the final data signals into the Federal Reserve's latest interest rate decision on Sept. 15-16. Vice President JD Vance on Thursday called on the Fed to cut interest rates to make homes more affordable. Bond yields receded during Thursday's session, with the 10-year Treasury note yields sliding more than 2 basis points and the 30-year Treasury note yield dropping more than 1 basis point. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by