 House votes to avoid government shutdown amid GOP hardliner resistance Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Politics & Policy U.S. House votes to avoid government shutdown amid GOP hard-liner resistance Published Tue, Sep 1 2026 9:51 AM EDT Updated Tue, Sep 1 2026 4:34 PM EDT Justin Papp @in/justin-papp @justinjpapp1 WATCH LIVE Key Points The U.S. House approved a measure to extend federal government funding to Dec. 11. The measure averts a government shutdown this fall ahead of November's midterm election, which will decide control of the House, with lawmakers eager to return to their districts to campaign. It next heads to the White House for President Donald Trump's signature. UNITED STATES - MAY 21: Rep. Chip Roy, R-Texas, left, and House Freedom Caucus chair Rep. Andy Harris, R-Md., along with members of the House Freedom Caucus speak to reporters about the One Big Beautiful Bill Act reconciliation package in the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, May 21, 2025. Bill Clark | Cq-roll Call, Inc. | Getty Images The U.S. House on Tuesday voted, 370-48, in favor of a stopgap spending measure that is expected to avert a government shutdown this fall ahead of the 2026 midterm election , despite objections from GOP hard-liners. The legislation, which the Senate passed in August before breaking for its summer recess, would keep the government funded through Dec. 11. The measure now heads to President Donald Trump's desk for his signature. Without passage, government funding is set to lapse at the end of the federal fiscal year, Sept. 30. That's a prospect neither party was keen on as lawmakers hope to quickly return to their districts and continue campaigning ahead of the midterms.  House leadership brought the bill to the floor using a process known as " suspension of the rules ," which allows consensus measures to circumvent certain procedural hurdles but requires a two-thirds vote. That meant Democratic votes were needed in the narrowly divided chamber. The package ultimately got broad, bipartisan support. Just 19 Republicans and 29 Democrats voted against the measure. "Thanks to the House Republicans' leadership and the foresight back in July, we began the necessary processes to ensure that the government would not be shut down," House Speaker Mike Johnson , R-La., said after the vote. "We are not going to have our troops in harm's way without getting paychecks." But before the vote, members of the hard-right House Freedom Caucus raised concerns about both the bill and the process. The lawmakers threatened to hold up what Johnson expected would be a quick vote to pass the measure, which extends current government funding levels. Read more CNBC politics and policy coverage Trump-touted Freedom Fuel expands to Detroit amid suit over supplier's unpaid fuel Vance says Fed should lower interest rates: 'Would be nice to have some help' Canada PM Carney swipes at Trump Commerce Sec. Lutnick over trade, tariff row Rep. Chip Roy , R-Texas, sent a letter on Monday to House Appropriations Committee Chair Tom Cole , R-Okla., and House Budget Committee Chair Jodey Arrington , R-Texas, outlining his concerns with the stopgap spending measure, among them its funding for Planned Parenthood and the absence of a ban on hemp products that contain THC, the psychoactive chemical in marijuana. "I have serious concerns about simply extending the status quo. Members should be clear about what passage of this legislation would mean: Congress would once again affirmatively fund policies we have spent months fighting to change," Roy wrote. And Rep. Andy Harris, R-Md., who chairs the Freedom Caucus, told Punchbowl News he would vote to block the rest of the GOP's agenda for the week over his objection to the spending measure. But their opposition was not enough to hinder the vote. With Democratic support, Johnson passed the funding measure even with some GOP defections. Most lawmakers will be eager to get back to their districts this election season, as Republicans strive to overcome Trump's low approval rating and hold on to narrow majorities in the House and Senate. Polling shows Democrats are largely expected to win control of the House, while the GOP is favored in the Senate. Senate Appropriations Committee Chair Patty Murray , D-Wash., applauded the spending bills' passage in a statement on Tuesday, but said more work is needed to be done to curb the Trump administration. "We have a lot of work ahead in the coming months to negotiate spending bills that invest in families instead of President Trump's war budget, and I will be pushing at every step of the way to invest in making life more affordable and rein in the corrupt abuses of this administration," Murray said. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance Join the CNBC Panel Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. 
 Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
 Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
 and Analysis.
 Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by 