Fed interest rate decision June 2026: Fed holds rates steady
Skip Navigation
Markets
Pre-Markets
U.S. Markets
Currencies
Prediction Markets
Cryptocurrency
Futures & Commodities
Bonds
Funds & ETFs
Business
Economy
Finance
Health & Science
Media
Real Estate
Energy
Climate
Transportation
Investigations
Industrials
Retail
Wealth
Sports
Life
Small Business
Investing
Personal Finance
Fintech
Financial Advisors
Options Action
ETF Street
Buffett Archive
Earnings
Trader Talk
Tech
Cybersecurity
AI
Enterprise
Internet
Media
Mobile
Social Media
CNBC Disruptor 50
Tech Guide
Politics & Policy
White House
Policy
Defense
Congress
Expanding Opportunity
Video
Latest Video
Full Episodes
Livestream
Live Audio
Live TV Schedule
CNBC Podcasts
CEO Interviews
CNBC Documentaries
Digital Originals
Watchlist
Investing Club
Trust Portfolio
Analysis
Trade Alerts
Meeting Videos
Homestretch
Jim's Columns
Education
Subscribe
PRO
Pro News
Josh Brown
Mike Santoli
Calls of the Day
My Portfolio
Livestream
Full Episodes
Stock Screener
Market Forecast
Options Investing
Chart Investing
Subscribe
Livestream
Menu
Make It
select
USA
INTL
Livestream
Search quotes, news & videos
Livestream
Watchlist
SIGN IN
Create free account
Markets
Business
Investing
Tech
Politics & Policy
Video
Watchlist
Investing Club
PRO
Livestream
Menu
Federal Reserve
Fed holds rates steady, pares down statement to remove cutting bias
Published Wed, Jun 17 2026
2:00 PM EDT
Updated Wed, Jun 17 2026
5:42 PM EDT
Jeff Cox
@jeff.cox.7528
@JeffCoxCNBCcom
WATCH LIVE
Key Points
The Federal Open Market Committee voted unanimously to keep its benchmark overnight borrowing rate anchored in a range of 3.5%-3.75%.
In Kevin Warsh's first meeting as chairman, the Fed's statement was revamped to be dramatically shorter and to remove key language indicating a bias toward future cuts.
Warsh didn't share his views in the closely watched "dot plot" grid, and said he would form task forces to overhaul major Fed operations.
watch now
VIDEO
3:25
03:25
Federal Reserve leaves rates unanimously votes to leave rates unchanged
Power Lunch
WASHINGTON –
Kevin Warsh
's first meeting as
Federal Reserve
chairman concluded Wednesday with no change in interest rates and a nod to possible hikes ahead. The meeting also saw the removal of key language indicating a bias toward future cuts within a dramatically shorter policy statement.
The Federal Open Market Committee voted unanimously to keep its benchmark overnight borrowing rate anchored in a range of 3.5%-3.75%. The federal funds rate has held there since the central bank lowered rates by three-quarters of a percentage point in the latter part of 2025.
With a bevy of intrigue over Warsh taking the central bank helm, the meeting followed the same pattern as the others this year regarding rates but differed otherwise.
A missing dot
Fed officials, through their closely watched "dot plot" grid, removed their prior outlook for a rate cut this year and indicated that a hike is possible. However, the
Summary of Economic Projections
missed the participation of one member: Warsh.
Warsh has been a critic of the forecasting tool as well as other forward guidance out of the committee including projections on unemployment, inflation and gross domestic product in the SEP.
Heading into the meeting, Fed watchers had suspected
Warsh wouldn't submit his outlook
, and some anticipated he might look to end the feature altogether. He confirmed at
a news conference
following the decision that he had declined to share a forecast and is forming task forces to overhaul major Fed operations.
"I did not submit a dot for me," Warsh said. "It's not helpful in the conduct of policy. I suspect by year-end, as I mentioned in my opening statements, there'll be a review about communication broadly, press conferences, dots, meetings, and the like, transcripts, minutes. This will be part of that. I don't want to prejudge the outcomes there, but I'm pretty open-minded about what they could be."
Based on the 18 of 19 possible responses, the median estimate for the fed funds rate at the end 2026 is now 3.8%, up from 3.4% in the prior projections from March and signaling the committee sees at least one rate hike as necessary this year. Meeting participants were split on the path for rates this year, with eight expecting no change, one seeing a cut and nine anticipating at least one hike.
An additional dot was missing for 2028 projections.
A shorter statement
During the news conference, Warsh acknowledged the changes to the committee's statement.
"It's a bit shorter, a bit simpler and it dispenses with some older language," he said. "That statement just gives you the facts, as best we can judge it."
In addition to the rate call, which was widely anticipated in financial markets, the
FOMC's post-meeting statement
also not only removed prior language seen as a nod toward an easing slant in the future but took a hatchet to the rest of it. Warsh has criticized the Fed for overcommunicating.
This week's communique checked in at just 130 words, compared with 341 for the April 29 release following the most recent meeting. The statement offered just a brief summary of economic conditions followed by a vow to control inflation.
"Economic activity is expanding at a solid pace despite elevated uncertainty that owes, in part, to the conflict in the Middle East. Productivity growth and capital investment are strong," the statement read. "Job gains have kept pace with the workforce, and the unemployment rate has changed little."
"Inflation remains elevated relative to the Committee's 2 percent goal, in part reflecting supply shocks that have driven price increases in certain sectors, including energy. The Committee will deliver price stability," the policymakers said.
The statement also noted that the Fed would maintain its policy of "ample reserves" in the banking system, indicating there are no immediate plans to reduce the central bank's bond holdings on its $6.7 trillion balance sheet, as Warsh has advocated.
The statement's unanimous approval came after so-called forward guidance verbiage drew three dissents at the April meeting from presidents of regional reserve banks who wanted to preserve a two-sided option for possible hikes or cuts ahead.
Higher inflation forecast
In keeping with uncertainty over rates, officials also adjusted their indications of where policy is headed from here. The grid, which anonymously indicates the rate outlook for meeting participants, erased an earlier indication for one cut this year and pushed any reductions into 2027 and 2028 as policymakers weigh the durability of an inflation spike brought on by the Iran war.
The grid indicated a median funds rate projection of 3.8% by the end of the year – some 0.16 percentage point above the current level and suggesting that a hike is very much on the table. They continued to expect a long-run funds rate of 3.1%.
Officials altered their views on the economy, raising their outlook on inflation for 2026 to 3.6% on headline and 3.3% for core, which excludes food and energy. At the last update in March, committee members anticipated 2.7% rates for both measures. They also slightly lowered their projection for gross domestic product growth to 2.2%, down 0.2 percentage point from March, and cut the unemployment projection to 4.3%, down 0.1 percentage point.
The inflation surge has posed a quandary for policymakers who are trained to look past short-term supply shocks such as the energy spike associated with the war.
Recent inflation indicators have posted multiyear highs, with the
consumer price index
for May indicating a 4.2% annual inflation rate, though the core measure that excludes food and energy registered lower than the headline reading at 2.9%. Inflation has been above the Fed's 2% target for the past five years.
Warsh told reporters that the Fed is committed to reducing inflation to 2%.
"The commitment to deliver is strong, unanimous, and unambiguous, and that's I think an important message we've missed for five years, and we're going to fix that," Warsh said.
Though he has offered little public commentary outside of his confirmation hearing and his swearing-in on May 22 as chairman, Warsh has argued that supply-shock inflation generally should be looked through when formulating policy. He also has maintained that artificial intelligence ultimately will have a disinflationary impact on the economy as rising productivity will help ease the cost of goods and services.
Still, the case for lowering rates has been made more complicated by a surprisingly resilient labor market. Nonfarm payroll growth again
defied expectations in May
with a gain of 172,000 while the unemployment rate, the Fed's most closely watched metric, was at 4.3%, unchanged over the past year.
Ahead of the decision, the market didn't anticipate any cuts in 2026 and a quarter-point hike was expected by the end of the year, according to the
CME Group's FedWatch gauge
. In the wake of the decision and Warsh's remarks, traders were now anticipating a hike could come as early as October.
Correction: In the wake of the decision and Warsh's remarks, traders were now anticipating a hike could come as early as October. An earlier version misstated the expected move.
Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news.
Subscribe to CNBC PRO
Subscribe to Investing Club
Licensing & Reprints
CNBC Councils
Select Personal Finance
Join the CNBC Panel
Closed Captioning
Digital Products
News Releases
Internships
Corrections
About CNBC
Site Map
Podcasts
Careers
Help
Contact
News Tips
Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you.
Get In Touch
CNBC Newsletters
Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox
Sign Up Now
Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services.
Advertise With Us
Please Contact Us
Ad Choices
Privacy Policy
Your Privacy Choices
CA Notice
Terms of Service
©
2026
Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company.
Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers
Data also provided by
