Fed rate decision July 2026: Divided Fed holds interest rates steady
Skip Navigation
Markets
Pre-Markets
U.S. Markets
Currencies
Prediction Markets
Cryptocurrency
Futures & Commodities
Bonds
Funds & ETFs
Business
Economy
Finance
Health & Science
Media
Real Estate
Energy
Climate
Transportation
Investigations
Industrials
Retail
Wealth
Sports
Life
Small Business
Investing
Personal Finance
Fintech
Financial Advisors
Options Action
ETF Street
Buffett Archive
Earnings
Trader Talk
Tech
Cybersecurity
AI
Enterprise
Internet
Media
Mobile
Social Media
CNBC Disruptor 50
Tech Guide
Politics & Policy
White House
Policy
Defense
Congress
Expanding Opportunity
Video
Latest Video
Full Episodes
Livestream
Live Audio
Live TV Schedule
CNBC Podcasts
CEO Interviews
CNBC Documentaries
Digital Originals
Watchlist
Investing Club
Trust Portfolio
Analysis
Trade Alerts
Meeting Videos
Homestretch
Jim's Columns
Education
Subscribe
PRO
Pro News
Josh Brown
Mike Santoli
Calls of the Day
My Portfolio
Livestream
Full Episodes
Stock Screener
Market Forecast
Options Investing
Chart Investing
Subscribe
Livestream
Menu
Make It
select
USA
INTL
Livestream
Search quotes, news & videos
Livestream
Watchlist
SIGN IN
Create free account
Markets
Business
Investing
Tech
Politics & Policy
Video
Watchlist
Investing Club
PRO
Livestream
Menu
Federal Reserve
Divided Fed holds interest rates steady, but three members voted to hike
Published Wed, Jul 29 2026
2:00 PM EDT
Updated Wed, Jul 29 2026
2:58 PM EDT
Jeff Cox
@jeff.cox.7528
@JeffCoxCNBCcom
WATCH LIVE
Key Points
The Federal Reserve voted 9-3 to hold its key interest rate steady in a range between 3.5% and 3.75%.
Three regional presidents  - Beth Hammack of Cleveland, Neel Kashkari of Minneapolis and Lorie Logan of Dallas – dissented as inflation has remained above the Fed's 2% target for more than five years.
Chairman Kevin Warsh has argued for giving the markets fewer signals about the central bank's next move.
watch now
VIDEO
1:08
01:08
FOMC votes to keep funds rate unchanged
Power Lunch
WASHINGTON – The
Federal Reserve
on Wednesday voted to hold its key interest rate steady but not without opposition from three officials who have expressed concern over inflation and wanted to hike.
Despite increasing support among some officials for a rate increase, the Federal Open Market Committee voted 9-3 to leave the federal funds rate in a range between 3.5% and 3.75%.
All of the "no" votes came from regional presidents – Beth Hammack of Cleveland, Neel Kashkari of Minneapolis and
Lorie Logan of Dallas
– who had been the most explicit about the need for higher rates to address inflation that has been above the Fed's 2% target for more than five years.
The
post-meeting statement
noted that the three dissenters "preferred to raise the target range for the federal funds rate by ¼ percentage point at this meeting."
An early challenge for Warsh
This is the first time since September 2016 that three policymakers dissented with a unified view of which direction rates should head.
"We're reading this as a Committee with vocal hawks," said Ian Lyngen, head of U.S. rates at BMO Capital Markets.
The no votes presented an early challenge for Chairman
Kevin Warsh
, whose refusal to provide clear road signs on where monetary policy is headed led to an unusually high level of uncertainty heading into the meeting.
Markets largely had expected
the central bank policymakers to approve another hold on rates, though there had been some inclination – about a 1-in-3 chance, according to
the CME Group's FedWatch tool
– that a surprise rate hike was in the cards. Prediction markets had a higher level of certainty that the Fed would hold.
Warsh has argued that the Fed
should spend less time trying to tell markets what it will do and instead emphasizing the conditions under which action would be taken. However, Wednesday's statement provided neither, even with markets largely expecting the Fed to hike in September.
The post-meeting statement was almost identical to
the one following the June 17 decision
and was in keeping with the Fed's actions all year, following three rate cuts in the latter part of 2025.
Officials again noted that "Economic activity is expanding at a solid pace despite elevated uncertainty that owes, in part, to the conflict in the Middle East." The statement further said that job growth has "kept pace with the workforce and the unemployment rate has changed little" even as the U.S. labor force has contracted.
As in June, the statement concluded with the simple declaratory, "The Committee will deliver price stability."
"The Fed appears to be running out of patience with above-target inflation, despite recent data coming in cold," said Kay Haigh, global head and chief investment officer of fixed income and liquidity solutions at Goldman Sachs Asset Management. "The committee's growing hawkish sentiment, shown by the three dissents against today's hold, has also likely been exacerbated by the recent flare up in hostilities in the Middle East."
Officials favoring tighter policy argued inflation has been a burden on households and is not showing clear signs of abating. Recent price pressures have reflected both tariffs imposed by President
Donald Trump
and higher energy costs tied to the Iran conflict.
The full committee in June penciled in one quarter-percentage-point increase by the end of 2026.
Disparate policy views
Governor Christopher Waller
also voiced worries recently over inflation, saying higher rates could be necessary if more progress isn't made. However, he voted in favor of a hold at this meeting.
For his part, Warsh has called
inflation "a choice,"
and he
repeatedly stressed
the importance of getting prices in check during recent hearings on Capitol Hill.
But from a policy perspective, Warsh has expressed disdain for the Fed's past practice of providing forward guidance on its expectations for rates.
Keeping with Warsh's first meeting, the statement was much shorter than what had become the norm. Warsh has stressed changing the way the Fed communicates, even dedicating one of five task forces he has created to address the issue.
In the weeks leading up to the meeting, his FOMC colleagues had expressed disparate policy views.
New York Fed Chair John Williams has said he sees current
policy well positioned
to bring inflation back to target. However, Logan countered that "modestly" higher rates would be needed. Hammack also has been an inflation hawk, citing the pressure households are facing from persistently higher prices across the board.
Earlier this week,  Trump showed support for Warsh, calling him "fantastic" while noting other
Fed officials had "bad intentions"
and perhaps had political motivations.
Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news.
Subscribe to CNBC PRO
Subscribe to Investing Club
Licensing & Reprints
CNBC Councils
Select Personal Finance
Join the CNBC Panel
Closed Captioning
Digital Products
News Releases
Internships
Corrections
About CNBC
Site Map
Podcasts
Careers
Help
Contact
News Tips
Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you.
Get In Touch
CNBC Newsletters
Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox
Sign Up Now
Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services.
Advertise With Us
Please Contact Us
Ad Choices
Privacy Policy
Your Privacy Choices
CA Notice
Terms of Service
©
2026
Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company.
Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers
Data also provided by
