‘It was time’ to admit US has weapons in orbit, Space Force’s new leader says - Defense One

Russian and Chinese advances led to the revelation, Gen. Douglas Schiess says at AFA.
NATIONAL HARBOR, Maryland—The advance of Chinese and Russian anti-satellite capabilities led the United States to admit it has weapons in space, the Space Force's top officer said on Tuesday, adding context to Monday’s bombshell revelation by the Air Force secretary.
Deterrence remains the Space Force’s goal, but the service will pursue it from a “position of strength,” Gen. Douglas Schiess said during a keynote address at the Air, Space, and Cyber Conference here.
On Monday, Air Force Secretary Troy Meink revealed the U.S. military has “on orbit, space-control weapons.” Schiess, who took over as chief of space operations less than two weeks ago, spoke to reporters after his keynote on Tuesday.
“We've talked about you know them being able to grapple a satellite and move it to a different orbit,” he said. “So, I think at this point, we are trying to say that we also need capabilities to not only defend the joint force from space-enabled attack, but defend our assets. And so, I think it was time that within the Department of War we talked about it, and it's time to talk about that we have the capabilities to make sure that we can do what the joint force needs.”
During his keynote, Schiess said the U.S. military relies on space assets for operations like the current war on Iran, that guardians are already prepared for orbital warfare, and that more money is needed for current and future operations.
“The Joint Force made it clear: without the Space Force's capabilities, the Joint Force could not and would not move forward,” Schiess said. “During Operation Epic Fury, our components, notably at U.S. Central Command and Space Command, with support from our components at European Command and Pacific Command, demonstrated that guardians are not supporting from the sidelines as a nice-to-have, but we are delivering space power directly into the fight as a need-to-have.”
Schiess highlighted one guardian in U.S. Central Command with the 42nd Electronic Warfare Detachment who “waged electromagnetic warfare against a determined adversary” during Operation Epic Fury.
“Even as alarm red sirens were blaring and incoming missiles targeted her site, she courageously held the line, protecting forces, denying adversary capability, and delivering space effects until her commander had to literally pull her from the console to safety,” Schiess said.
The CSO said the Space Force has been flexing its capabilities in outer space as well. He highlighted the service’s recent Victus Haze exercise, in which Rocket Lab quickly launched a space vehicle whose satellite chased after True Anomaly's spacecraft.
“This particular Victus Haze mission earlier this year demonstrated the ability to launch and respond to an on-demand, on-orbit threat in just 17 hours,” the general said. “Space Systems Command, our industry partners, and Combat Forces Command proved to the world that if an adversary targets the United States Space Force, we have the capability to deliver a swift response, and we are going to continue to work on getting faster and faster.”
Schiess said those current and future fights highlight the need for more resources.
“So, looking ahead, we must expand that advantage. We must build a sustained pipeline of guardian talent, equipped with the appropriate training and the kit and advanced capabilities, to ensure our joint force is fully powered by space expertise.” he said. “We must ensure today, tomorrow, and for as long as we have the pleasure to serve, that our joint force can execute because guardians are there, both at home and abroad, and in harm's way.”
Space Force has grown quickly since its founding in 2019, but this year, the Pentagon is asking Congress to allocate $71.3 billion for the service for the fiscal year that began more than two weeks ago. It would be the biggest single-year funding increase for a service branch, by percentage, since 1952, according to the Aerospace Corporation.
“Space is both a battlefield and the backbone of our joint force. We face determined and credible adversaries who are building and building counter-space systems at incredible speeds to target directly the United States state's space advantage,” Schiess said. “So that is why we don't just monitor the domain; we stand ready to defend it. So let me be crystal clear: today, Guardians operate on-orbit weapons that can defend the joint force against space-enabled attacks, and in the coming years, with the resources entrusted to us, by the way, we need your help, Congress-we will make disciplined and responsible choices about how we build and sustain our combat advantage, which means scaling our ability to respond to threats.”
It’s not clear whether Congress will grant the request. The White House wants $1.15 trillion through the normal defense-budget process and an additional $350 billion through reconciliation—a controversial and partisan budget maneuver never used for defense funding before last year. The Trump administration is pressing the GOP-led Congress to relent by proposing to use reconciliation to fund some major Space Force programs, such as the Air Moving Target Indicator and the space data network, and the vast majority of funds for the Golden Dome missile defense program.
In the meantime, 10 percent of the service’s programs are on hold because Congress hasn’t passed a fiscal 2027 defense spending bill, Schiess told reporters. The federal government is currently operating under a stopgap funding measure that will elapse on Dec. 11.