USPS confirms internal probe into whistleblower’s mail voting allegations - Democracy Docket

The U.S. Postal Service’s internal watchdog confirmed Tuesday it is investigating allegations from a whistleblower who warned that the agency’s rushed implementation of President Donald Trump’s anti-mail voting order could disrupt the midterms and prevent voters from receiving ballots.
The USPS Office of Inspector General told Democracy Docket that it has received the whistleblower’s allegations and is reviewing them.
“Our office has received the whistleblower allegations around the Postal Service’s implementation of the Executive Order,” the inspector general’s office said. “We are currently analyzing the information and plan to conduct an independent review of these allegations.”
Get updates straight to your inbox — for free
Join 350,000 readers who rely on our daily and weekly newsletters for the latest in voting, elections and democracy.
The confirmation goes further than what was publicly known last week, when Democratic lawmakers said the inspector general had opened an investigation after they urged the watchdog to examine the whistleblower’s claims. At the time, the inspector general’s office had not responded to Democracy Docket’s request for comment.
The watchdog did not characterize its planned work as a formal investigation, instead saying it would conduct an “independent review.”
The anonymous whistleblower alleged that USPS developed its new ballot mail verification system through a rushed and secretive process. The whistleblower warned that technical failures could result in large batches of ballots being rejected before they are mailed to eligible voters. The whistleblower also described the agency’s digital infrastructure as “astonishingly untested” and warned of widespread errors and undelivered ballots.
The inspector general stressed that it operates separately from USPS and already conducts oversight of election mail, including unannounced observations at postal facilities, reviews of mail-tracking tools and investigations into allegations of mishandled or destroyed ballots.
The office also recently completed an audit of USPS’ handling of election and political mail during the 2026 primaries. But the watchdog said that review, which began in March, did not examine the Postal Service’s implementation of Trump’s executive order.
Postmaster General David Steiner has defended the new USPS system, saying Friday that the agency stands behind “the rigor of our process and the resulting system” while promising to monitor its performance and make changes when warranted.
The allegations emerged amid multiple court challenges to the new USPS rule, but the Trump administration has yet to deny any of them.
A federal judge in Massachusetts last week blocked the agency from making the requirements mandatory for the November election, finding that immediate implementation threatened widespread disenfranchisement.
The Trump administration is seeking emergency relief from the U.S. Supreme Court.