Several killed in Amazon cargo plane crash in Miami

September 7, 2026
An Amazon cargo plane barreled off a runway at Miami International Airport on Sunday, killing at least five people as it struck vehicles and burst into flames, authorities said.
The aircraft overran the runway around 2 p.m. local time, or 18:00 GMT, after arriving from San Juan, Puerto Rico. Five people were killed, three critically injured and two others hospitalized with less severe injuries, Miami-Dade County officials said at a press conference.
"Right now, our absolute priority is the safety, well-being and care of everyone involved. We’re doing everything we can to support those affected," officials said, adding that it was too soon to determine whether those killed were on the plane or in vehicles struck by the aircraft.
According to the authorities, the crash sent thick black smoke billowing into the sky and trapped the pilot and copilot in the cockpit, as well as some people in cars.
Investigation launched into cause of crash
The Prime Air aircraft appeared to be resting on its belly and was largely intact despite the fire.
The NTSB said in an X post on Sunday the B-767-300 cargo airplane was flying into Miami from San Juan, Puerto Rico and they have "launched a go team to investigate Sunday's runway excursion accident."
The flight was operated by 21 Air, a North Carolina-based cargo carrier. The 32-year-old Boeing 767 was originally built to carry passengers and flew for several airlines before being converted to a cargo plane in 2015, according to Flightradar24.
Amazon said it would cooperate with the investigation.
“We’re heartbroken to learn that five people lost their lives in today’s incident at Miami International Airport,” the company said in a statement. “Our deepest sympathies go out to the families, loved ones and all those affected by this devastating loss."
About 250 flights were delayed at the airport by late Sunday afternoon, according to FlightAware. Fire crews were still dealing with a fuel leak several hours later, according to reports.
Eyewitness say they saw 'thick black smoke billowing into the sky'
Jackson Lee, who runs an electronics shop near the crash site, told news agencies that he went outside with four colleagues after the crash and saw smoke rising near the airport’s fences.
"We hear planes taking off and landing every five minutes. I thought I’d got used to it," Lee said. "I never thought it could come this close to us."
Edited by: Dmytro Hubenko
Don't let the algorithm hide the news. If you rely on our team for trusted reporting, please take a moment to select us as your Preferred Source on Google by clicking here and hitting the "star" or "preferred" button, so you'll always see our verified news first.