 Von der Leyen tries to counter Trump with €200 million investment in Greenland | Euronews Go to navigation Go to main content Go to search Go to footer English English Français Deutsch Italiano Español Português Polski Pусский Türkçe Ελληνικά Magyar فارسی العربية Shqip Română ქართული български Srpski BHS Newsletter Newsletters Events Events Podcasts Videos Africanews Loader Latest Trending US-Israel attack on Iran 2026 War in Ukraine France AI Artificial intelligence Russia Latest news World 'Turning blind eye' to AfD win further angers voters, analyst warns Europe News Ceuta President calls on the EU for a strong response against Morocco Israel UAE warned Netanyahu of 7 October attack, Israeli newspaper reports No Comment Sumatran tiger cubs receive first health checks at Greek zoo Europe Categories EU.XL Europe News Europe Series France United Kingdom Programmes Europe in Motion The Cube The Europe Conversation 12 minutes with Made in Europe Brussels, My Love? Euronews investigates Make it Work Smart Regions Featured Europe Today Euronews' flagship morning TV show with the news and insights that drive Europe, live from Brussels every morning at 08.00. Also available as a newsletter and podcast. The Ring The Ring is Euronews’ weekly political showdown, where Europe’s toughest debates meet their boldest voices. In each episode, two political heavyweights from across the EU face off to propose a diversity of opinions and spark conversations around the most important issues of EU affairs and the wider European political life. World Categories World Americas Middle East Africa Asia Oceania Davos Iran Greenland USA Programmes Spotlight Global Japan Euronews Witness Qatar 365 World News Euronews Debates Football Now Top News Stories Today Featured No Comment No agenda, no argument, no bias, No Comment. Get the story without commentary. EU Policy Business Categories Business Economy Markets Programmes Business Planet Energy Frontiers Focus Real Economy Start Me Up The Dialogue Target The Exchange Featured My Wildest Prediction Dare to imagine the future with business and tech visionaries The Big Question Deep dive conversations with business leaders Travel Categories Travel News Destinations Moments Residences Travel Live TV Programmes Grand Voyager Adventures Conscious Travel Explore Golf Travel Tales Notes From The Usa Soul Of The South Taste Women Beyond Borders Next Categories Tech News Money Space Work Mobility Home Artificial intelligence Programmes Dub.AI Hacker Hunter Rethink Sci-Tech Featured Euronews Tech Talks Euronews Tech Talks goes beyond discussions to explore the impact of new technologies on our lives. With explanations, engaging Q&As, and lively conversations, the podcast provides valuable insights into the intersection of technology and society. The Food Detectives Europe's best food experts are joining forces to crack down on fraud. Euronews is following them in this special series: The Food Detectives Culture Categories Culture news Style Design Art Taste Music Cinema Programmes Creators Crossing Cultures Cry Like A Boy Cult Inspire Saudi Meet The Locals Melting Pot Culture Modern Nomads Musica Scenes The Kitchen The Star Ingredient Earth Categories Earth News Nature Water EcoTech Programmes Ocean Ocean Calls The Road To Green Featured Water Matters Europe's water is under increasing pressure. Pollution, droughts, floods are taking their toll on our drinking water, lakes, rivers and coastlines. Join us on a journey around Europe to see why protecting ecosystems matters, how our wastewater can be better managed, and to discover some of the best water solutions. Video reports, an animated explainer series and live debate - find out why Water Matters, from Euronews. Climate Now We give you the latest climate facts from the world’s leading source, analyse the trends and explain how our planet is changing. We meet the experts on the front line of climate change who explore new strategies to mitigate and adapt. Health Categories Health news Healthcare Nutrition Wellbeing Programmes Smart Health Euroviews Videos More Special coverage Climate Global Japan InClassica Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Young Inventors Prize 2025 Discover Algeria Discover Türkiye Golf Travel Tales From Qatar Uzbekistan Partner content Islamic Civilization Center Be Bold. Discover Saudi Leading Edge Powering Progress Experience Brazil Italy – Heritage & Horizons Poland Untold Costa Rica Beyond Business Saadiyat Cultural District My Tokyo Kerala Tourism Dubai Global Digital Economy Hub Turkmenistan - Our story Endless Discovery Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan Services Weather Bulletin Messaging apps Widgets & Services Online Language Courses Find Us Log In My Account Live Close menu sidebar English English Français Deutsch Italiano Español Português Polski Pусский Türkçe Ελληνικά Magyar فارسی العربية Shqip Română ქართული български Srpski BHS Latest Trending US-Israel attack on Iran 2026 War in Ukraine France AI Artificial intelligence Russia Latest news World 'Turning blind eye' to AfD win further angers voters, analyst warns Europe News Ceuta President calls on the EU for a strong response against Morocco Israel UAE warned Netanyahu of 7 October attack, Israeli newspaper reports No Comment Sumatran tiger cubs receive first health checks at Greek zoo Europe Categories EU.XL Europe News Europe Series France United Kingdom Programmes Europe in Motion The Cube The Europe Conversation 12 minutes with Made in Europe Brussels, My Love? Euronews investigates Make it Work Smart Regions Featured Europe Today Euronews' flagship morning TV show with the news and insights that drive Europe, live from Brussels every morning at 08.00. Also available as a newsletter and podcast. The Ring The Ring is Euronews’ weekly political showdown, where Europe’s toughest debates meet their boldest voices. In each episode, two political heavyweights from across the EU face off to propose a diversity of opinions and spark conversations around the most important issues of EU affairs and the wider European political life. World Categories World Americas Middle East Africa Asia Oceania Davos Iran Greenland USA Programmes Spotlight Global Japan Euronews Witness Qatar 365 World News Euronews Debates Football Now Top News Stories Today Featured No Comment No agenda, no argument, no bias, No Comment. Get the story without commentary. EU Policy Business Categories Business Economy Markets Programmes Business Planet Energy Frontiers Focus Real Economy Start Me Up The Dialogue Target The Exchange Featured My Wildest Prediction Dare to imagine the future with business and tech visionaries The Big Question Deep dive conversations with business leaders Travel Categories Travel News Destinations Moments Residences Travel Live TV Programmes Grand Voyager Adventures Conscious Travel Explore Golf Travel Tales Notes From The Usa Soul Of The South Taste Women Beyond Borders Next Categories Tech News Money Space Work Mobility Home Artificial intelligence Programmes Dub.AI Hacker Hunter Rethink Sci-Tech Featured Euronews Tech Talks Euronews Tech Talks goes beyond discussions to explore the impact of new technologies on our lives. With explanations, engaging Q&As, and lively conversations, the podcast provides valuable insights into the intersection of technology and society. The Food Detectives Europe's best food experts are joining forces to crack down on fraud. Euronews is following them in this special series: The Food Detectives Culture Categories Culture news Style Design Art Taste Music Cinema Programmes Creators Crossing Cultures Cry Like A Boy Cult Inspire Saudi Meet The Locals Melting Pot Culture Modern Nomads Musica Scenes The Kitchen The Star Ingredient Earth Categories Earth News Nature Water EcoTech Programmes Ocean Ocean Calls The Road To Green Featured Water Matters Europe's water is under increasing pressure. Pollution, droughts, floods are taking their toll on our drinking water, lakes, rivers and coastlines. Join us on a journey around Europe to see why protecting ecosystems matters, how our wastewater can be better managed, and to discover some of the best water solutions. Video reports, an animated explainer series and live debate - find out why Water Matters, from Euronews. Climate Now We give you the latest climate facts from the world’s leading source, analyse the trends and explain how our planet is changing. We meet the experts on the front line of climate change who explore new strategies to mitigate and adapt. Health Categories Health news Healthcare Nutrition Wellbeing Programmes Smart Health Euroviews Videos More Special coverage Climate Global Japan InClassica Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Young Inventors Prize 2025 Discover Algeria Discover Türkiye Golf Travel Tales From Qatar Uzbekistan Partner content Islamic Civilization Center Be Bold. Discover Saudi Leading Edge Powering Progress Experience Brazil Italy – Heritage & Horizons Poland Untold Costa Rica Beyond Business Saadiyat Cultural District My Tokyo Kerala Tourism Dubai Global Digital Economy Hub Turkmenistan - Our story Endless Discovery Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan Services Weather Bulletin Messaging apps Widgets & Services Online Language Courses Newsletter Newsletters Events Events Podcasts Videos Africanews Loader Find Us Advertisement Europe Europe News Von der Leyen tries to counter Trump with €200 million investment in Greenland Loading the video Ursula von der Leyen in Greenland. - Copyright Mads Claus Rasmussen/Ritzau Scanpix Copyright Mads Claus Rasmussen/Ritzau Scanpix By Jorge Liboreiro Published on 07/09/2026 - 16:26 GMT+2 • Updated 17:15 Share Comments Add Euronews on Google Share Facebook Twitter Flipboard Send Reddit Linkedin Messenger Telegram VK Bluesky Threads Whatsapp Copy/paste the article video embed link below: Copied Ursula von der Leyen backed Greenland's territorial integrity as she unveiled a €200 million investment package to counter pressure from Donald Trump, who has repeatedly threatened to annex the mineral-rich island. The European Union will invest an additional €200 million in Greenland over the next two years to deepen economic ties and extract raw materials, Ursula von der Leyen announced on Monday during an official visit to the vast Arctic island. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT "We know that the Arctic has become one of the places where the tectonic plates of geopolitics collide, so we have a direct stake in what happens here," the president of the European Commission said in Nuuk. The financial package aims to expand the bloc's presence in the semi-autonomous territory, which has long been in US President Donald Trump's sights. Trump has rattled the transatlantic alliance with his push to seize Greenland from the Kingdom of Denmark. Tensions peaked in January, when he threatened to impose steep tariffs to pressure Denmark into relinquishing the territory. He later backed down amid backlash. But in July, Trump suddenly revived his ambition to annex the island, indicating the subject was still top of his mind. On Monday, he posted a map of the world that showed Greenland under American control. Von der Leyen used her trip to Nuuk to underline European support amid what she called "enormous pressure", though she did not mention Trump by name. "The European Union stands in full solidarity with the Kingdom of Denmark and the people of Greenland. We will continue to do so. And we want to be very clear and repeat again here that Greenland's future is for the people of Greenland and Denmark to decide. No one else," she said in remarks to the press. "Territorial integrity, sovereignty, the inviolability of borders. These are fundamental principles of international law." Standing by her side, Greenland's Prime Minister Jens-Frederik Nielsen and Denmark's Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen thanked von der Leyen for her words. "Greenland needs the European Union, and the European Union needs Greenland," Nielsen said. "I firmly believe this to be true. We need each other." "Your voice has been very clear the last couple of years. We needed that, and we need it now, so thank you for that," Frederiksen told von der Leyen. The EU will invest an additional €200 million in Greenland. AP Photo Frederiksen said Denmark was open to working "closer" with both the US and Europe on security and defence matters related to the Arctic, a region that climate change is making increasingly attractive to world powers. The €200 million investment package will spread across three key areas: digital connectivity, including subsea cables and satellite infrastructure; clean energy, with a particular focus on hydropower; and sustainable mining of critical raw materials. Greenland holds 25 of the 34 minerals that Brussels considers crucial for the homegrown development of renewable energy systems and cutting-edge technology. The sector is monopolised by China, leaving the EU at the mercy of Beijing's export controls . Mining on the island, however, remains well below its potential due to harsh glacial conditions that discourage investors from undertaking expensive projects. Minerals were among the reasons Trump cited to justify his threat to take over Greenland, though he told the New York Times it was ultimately a question of ownership. He has also complained that allies have failed to invest enough in the region. Europeans have since tried to counter Trump's narrative by doubling down on their commitments to Greenland. Over the next two weeks, soldiers from 10 countries will take part in NATO's Arctic Shield exercise. Meanwhile, the Commission is working to update its Arctic strategy and has earmarked €530 million specifically for Greenland in its proposal for the next EU budget. Go to accessibility shortcuts Share Comments Add Euronews on Google Read more EU races to rethink Arctic policy as the global power grab continues Arctic emerges as new front in EU’s effort to cut dependence on Chinese critical raw materials Trump's new Greenland threat triggers Europe's unhealed trauma Mette Frederiksen Donald Trump European Union Denmark Greenland Ursula von der Leyen Comments ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Top stories 11 European nations to sanction Israeli settlements in the West Bank Ceuta President calls on the EU for a strong response against Morocco Global trade accounted for 35% of the EU's carbon footprint in 2023 Saudi Arabia strikes back after heaviest Houthi attack in years 'Turning blind eye' to AfD win further angers voters, analyst warns ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Most read 1 Eiffel Tower closes as staff strike amid row over Hindu group visit 2 Spanish archaeologists find 4,400-year-old tomb in Egypt with original colours intact 3 Merz 'deeply shocked' after major AfD win in Saxony-Anhalt 4 French billionaire Olivier Bouygues on trial in illegal hunting case 5 Von der Leyen counters Trump with €200M investment in Greenland ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Loader Search Browse today's tags US-Israel attack on Iran 2026 War in Ukraine France AI Artificial intelligence Russia Donald Trump Ukraine Culture Germany United Kingdom Serbia Themes Europe World Business EU Policy Earth Next Health Travel Culture Videos Programmes Our journalists Euronews Archives – browse all articles and videos online Services Live Bulletin Weather Latest Follow us Apps Messaging apps Widgets & Services Africanews Online Language Courses More About Euronews Commercial Services Terms and Conditions Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Transparency Contact Work at Euronews Accessibility: non-compliant Modify my cookies choices Follow us Newsletters Copyright © euronews 2026 