Supreme Court denies Trump's request to enforce mail-in ballot restrictions

The Supreme Court denied President Donald Trump’s emergency request to enforce mail-in ballot restrictions, the latest setback in his legal efforts.
Though the court decided in the Trump administration’s favor regarding mail-in ballot restrictions, it won’t enforce them for the midterm elections. The administration had filed an emergency measure to try to enforce the restrictions before the pivotal elections.
Stay informed.Stay ahead.
Join Washington Examiner for unlimited access to the news, analysis, and commentary that matter most.
Already a member? Log in
Supreme Court Justices Samuel Alito and Clarence Thomas dissented, while Justice Brett Kavanaugh concurred but indicated he’d side with the Trump administration later.
“The application for stay presented to JUSTICE JACKSON and by her referred to the Court is denied. The Government is unlikely to succeed on the merits of its challenge to the District Court’s preliminary injunction. And the equitable factors applicable for obtaining emergency relief from this Court do not favor a stay,” the ruling said.
The court sided with the argument of election officials, who argued that it was impossible to overhaul the system in time for the midterm elections. Alabama, North Carolina, and Wisconsin have already begun early mail-in voting.
The Trump administration’s plan for mail-in ballots required states to adopt a single envelope style and turn over lists of eligible voters. If the new requirements weren’t met, the U.S. Postal Service would have the ability to refuse to deliver mail-in ballots to states that failed to adopt the new system.
VANCE AND MAGA INC. WORK TO DEFEND ROGER MARSHALL IN REDDER KANSAS
The lawsuit was brought forward by Democratic state officials and voting rights groups. The argument boiled down to whether the president had the authority to decide election rules, as the Trump administration argued that he had the authority to decide mail-in ballot rules, given the ballots were delivered by the Postal Service.
The Trump administration received another blow earlier on Monday in the case after a Trump-appointed judge granted voting rights groups and Democratic state officials a preliminary injunction on the new Postal Service rules, arguing the administration had exceeded its authority.