Amazon cargo jet overruns runway at Miami airport, striking multiple vehicles | Fox News

At least five people were killed, and five others were injured at Miami International Airport on Sunday after an Amazon cargo plane overran the runway, struck multiple vehicles and caught fire while landing.
The Miami-Dade Sheriff’s Office (MDSO) and Miami-Dade Fire Rescue confirmed that there were at least 10 victims involved in the crash, which happened when Prime Air flight 7598 overran Miami International Airport’s diagonal runway at about 2 p.m. local time.
Fire Chief Rey de Darla said three people were taken to a trauma center in critical condition and two others were transported to a local hospital.
Miami-Dade County Mayor Daniella Levine Cava said the rescue team "was there within seconds of the crash."
Fire officials are still working to contain a fuel leak caused by the crash, according to de Darla.
"We do still have an active fuel leak that's occurring off of the aircraft that is being mitigated," de Darla said.
Fire officials said the airplane caught fire following the crash, with more than 60 fire units responding to the scene involving multiple patients.
"Units arrived to find an airplane that had caught on fire as a result of this crash, with heavy flames and smoke showing. Firefighters are working on extinguishing the fire and assessing patients," the Miami-Dade Fire Rescue said in a post on X.
An Amazon spokesperson confirmed to Fox News Digital that the plane experienced an "incident" while attempting to land, but did not elaborate on the circumstances.
"We can confirm that an Amazon Air plane operated by 21 Air experienced an incident while attempting to land at Miami International Airport today," Amazon said.
"This is a fast-moving situation and we're still gathering details. We're working closely with local authorities and officials to understand exactly what happened. Right now, our absolute priority is the safety, well-being, and care of everyone involved. We're doing everything we can to support those affected."
CLICK HERE FOR MORE LIFESTYLE STORIES
The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) said 21 Air Flight 7598, a Boeing 767-300, departed from Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport in San Juan, Puerto Rico.
County CAD records indicate the emergency call was received at about 1:55 p.m.
Cava said the city is closely monitoring the situation.
"Right now, our focus is on everyone involved and making sure our first responders have what they need. We will provide updates as we learn more," she said in a post on X.
Department of Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy said first responders were assessing the scene.
"We’ve issued a full ground stop at Miami International while first responders assess the scene after an Amazon cargo plane overran the runway. If you’re traveling through the area, please expect significant delays and potential cancellations," he said in a post on X.
Airport officials later said one runway reopened, but they are "still experiencing impacts from this incident."
Passengers with flights scheduled for Sunday were advised to check directly with their airline for flight status updates before heading to the airport.
The FAA will investigate the incident.
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP
This is a developing story. Please check back for updates.