Alejandro Betancourt, the controversial Venezuelan oil tycoon Trump is banking on - France 24 Skip to main content France 24 - International breaking news, top stories and headlines Home Shows Newsfeed Live en Français English Español عربي Settings Sign up for newsletters Manage subscription to notifications Manage my privacy settings Menu Home Shows Live Newsfeed Menu Close World Cup 2026 Heatwave Mideast conflict France 24 live See all shows Latest Newscast Closed-captioned Newscast TV guide Watch France 24 on TV Headings Topics Environment Business / Tech Sport Culture The Bright Side Infographics Fight the Fake The Observers Sponsored contents By region France Africa Middle East Americas Europe Asia-Pacific Previous Next France Africa Middle East Americas Europe Asia-Pacific Advertising Home Americas Alejandro Betancourt, the controversial Venezuelan oil tycoon Trump is banking on Americas US President Donald Trump on Friday announced "the biggest oil deal in world history" – a new deal with Venezuela for "65 billion barrels of oil". Washington is set to take a 35 percent stake in North American Blue Energy Partners, which is owned by controversial Venezuelan oil tycoon Alejandro Betancourt. Issued on: 01/09/2026 - 17:05 Modified: 01/09/2026 - 21:00 4 min Reading time Share By: Sébastian SEIBT Venezuelan businessman Alejandro Betancourt made his fortune under the Chavista regime. © France Médias Monde graphics studio Just a couple of months ago, Alejandro Betancourt was effectively confined to his luxury London residences, facing potential extradition to Switzerland over allegations of embezzlement and money laundering . But now the Venezuelan millionaire is set to be a key player in “the biggest oil deal in world history”, according to US President Donald Trump . Read more Trump announces 'historic' agreement for US stake in Venezuela oil reserves Trump’s 'viceroy' in Venezuela? It is very difficult to get a clear picture of the deal between Washington and Caracas announced by Trump on Friday because there is "no publicly available text of any agreement so far", said Tom Long, a Latin America specialist at the University of Warwick. He added that the "Venezuelan government is being very careful not to publicly contradict the very expansive but probably incorrect claims that begin on social media". But what we know about the deal seems ambitious because it grants the US the right to exploit “nearly 20 percent of Venezuela’s proven reserves – that is 17 oil fields where production is supposed to be increased”, explained Thomas Posado, a Venezuela specialist at the University of Rouen. That amounts to 65 billion barrels from the South American country. Venezuela’s Interim President Delcy Rodriguez said that this agreement is expected to bring $100 billion in investments to her country. However, “the practical details of implementation and the reality of future investment” remain very unclear, Posado added. The identity of Washington's alleged Venezuelan partner in exploiting the oil fields was only officially confirmed on Tuesday. US media outlets last week named 46-year-old Betancourt, the controversial Venezuelan oil tycoon, as the new intermediary between Washington and the Venezuelan government. The Financial Times even went so far as to describe him as " Trump’s ‘viceroy’ in Venezuela ". Trump is banking on Betancourt being “a key player in the Venezuelan oil sector who appears to have the trust of Delcy Rodriguez", according to Long, adding that this position was previously "really dependent on relationships with the state". Betancourt is the head of North American Blue Energy Partners (NABEP), Venezuela’s second-largest private oil producer. Rodriguez has reportedly consulted him on several occasions for advice on the best way to revive Venezuela’s economy , according to several investigations by Spanish-language media outlets . US and Venezuela seal 25-year oil deal To display this content from YouTube, you must enable advertisement tracking and audience measurement. Accept Manage my choices One of your browser extensions seems to be blocking the video player from loading. To watch this content, you may need to disable it on this site. Try again Cover image: © France 24 01:45 'A POS (piece of sh*t)' Betancourt is a controversial figure with a long list of scandals to his name. He has been arrested twice in the United Kingdom, where he has lived for several years. The first time was in September 2025 at the request of Spanish authorities, who accused him of money laundering and tax offences. He was released on bail and then arrested a second time two months later after Switzerland issued an international arrest warrant as part of an investigation into allegations of embezzlement from PDVSA, the Venezuelan oil giant. However, he has never been formally charged in Venezuela, Switzerland or Spain. The United States has also persuaded Switzerland to allow him to travel freely abroad, The Washington Post reported . However, his appointment has not gone down well with Venezuela’s opposition, according to The New York Times. While most acknowledge that Betancourt possesses genuine expertise in the oil industry, he is also “a POS (piece of sh*t) that comes along only once per generation”, Thor Halvorssen, a Venezuelan-born human rights activist, told the Financial Times. The 'bolichicos' In the eyes of many in Venezuela, Betancourt “embodies the archetype of those known as ‘bolichicos’, or the 'bolibourgeoisie',” Posado noted. The term refers to Venezuelan businessmen “whose immense fortunes depend entirely on the goodwill and favours of the government, whether during the era of Hugo Chavez or Nicolas Maduro”. “They are the upper echelons of the Venezuelan economy,” Long also noted. Betancourt initially built his fortune in the electricity sector. In the early 2010s, he founded the company Derwick Associates, which, “without having the slightest experience, secured at least 11 government contracts worth approximately $5 billion to build thermoelectric power plants, without any competitive bidding”, the Spanish daily El Pais noted . He then turned his attention to Venezuelan oil before setting out to make his mark in Spain, where he got married in 2012. Betancourt built a small empire there, investing in both luxury real estate and local startups, according to El Pais. The US president is allying himself with a remnant of Chavism by choosing this “bolichico”. “This clearly shows that predation and access to Venezuela’s energy resources are Donald Trump’s priority, rather than promoting a democratic transition,” Posado said. US to control one fifth of Venezuela's oil reserves, Trump says To display this content from YouTube, you must enable advertisement tracking and audience measurement. Accept Manage my choices One of your browser extensions seems to be blocking the video player from loading. To watch this content, you may need to disable it on this site. Try again Cover image: © France 24 01:35 'Megalomaniacal fantasy' It’s hard to say whether Betancourt will help Trump quench his thirst for Venezuelan oil. According to the Financial Times, the goal would be to let him run a sort of “mini-PDVSA”, capable of developing the 17 coveted oil fields much more quickly than the massive state-owned behemoth. But this dream of gaining access to 65 billion barrels of oil “is a product of Trump losing grasp of reality and his megalomaniac fantasies", according to Aslak Orre, a Norwegian political scientist and expert on Venezuela at the Chr. Michelsen Institute. He added that, even "if one managed to magically ramp up Venezuelan oil production threefold, in order to reach the historically highest levels of daily production (which was way back in the 1970s), it would take exactly 50 years to get 65 billion barrels out of the ground". In other words, according to experts, Trump’s promise is more like a publicity stunt aimed at convincing Americans that the US has found a solution to rising oil prices linked to the war in Iran. But in the end, this agreement is most likely to benefit middlemen like Betancourt. This article was adapted from the original in French . Read next Venezuela's interim govt, opposition wrap first round of post-Maduro talks Americas Trump announces 'historic' agreement for US stake in Venezuela oil reserves Americas Today's top stories Germany blames Russia for Leipzig airport drone attack, orders Russian consulate closed Europe US and Iran trade fire as hostilities flare again Middle East Alejandro Betancourt, the controversial Venezuelan oil tycoon Trump is banking on Americas After the floods, Nepal works to bury hundreds of washed-up unidentified bodies Asia / Pacific UK needs 'substantial change', says PM Andy Burnham in maiden parliament speech Europe Advertising Most read 1 Trump says NBC journalist to be reported to FCC for ‘punishment’ over endorsement coverage Americas 2 French LGBTQ rights leader hospitalised after ‘despicable homophobic attack’ in Paris France 3 Iceland rejects restarting EU accession talks in referendum Europe 4 Iran says continuing war ‘not in our interest’ after fighting flares As it happened Middle East 5 Putin, Xi set for Central Asia summit as Russia and China seek to counter Western influence Asia / Pacific 6 US Treasury bars certain journalists from G20 meeting in North Carolina Americas Keywords for this article Venezuela Features Donald Trump USA Explainer Happening now USA Israel Russia Donald Trump Freedom of the press International USA United Kingdom Canada Australia Germany India Netherlands South Africa Italy About France 24 Who are we? Ethics and transparency Press room Contact France 24 Report a problem with our content Report a technical issue Advertising Content licensing Join us France Médias Monde websites RFI Learn French RFI Instrumental MCD InfoMigrants ENTR ZOA CFI Académie France Médias Monde Services Newsletters RSS feeds Watch France 24 on TV Application Download the France 24 app RFI France 24 مونت كارلو الدولية / MCD France Médias Monde Legal notice Accessibility: partially compliant Privacy Cookies Manage my privacy settings Notifications Facebook Bluesky Threads Instagram YouTube TikTok WhatsApp Telegram SoundCloud Add to my preferred sources Follow on Google News © 2026 Copyright France 24 - All rights reserved. France 24 is not responsible for the content of external websites. Audience ratings certified by ACPM. ACPM Page not found The content you requested does not exist or is not available anymore.