 Nobel laureate Machado: ‘Illegitimate’ Venezuela regime has no right to strike US oil deal | Venezuela | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics Midterms 2026 World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters The Filter Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Design a better world Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development María Corina Machado addressing the Venezuelan diaspora during a rally in Panama City in May. Photograph: Martin Bernetti/AFP/Getty Images View image in fullscreen María Corina Machado addressing the Venezuelan diaspora during a rally in Panama City in May. Photograph: Martin Bernetti/AFP/Getty Images Venezuela Nobel laureate Machado: ‘Illegitimate’ Venezuela regime has no right to strike US oil deal Opposition leader says interim government lacking democratic mandate to negotiate on natural resources The US and Venezuela: a century-old relationship drenched in oil Tom Phillips Latin America correspondent Thu 3 Sep 2026 12.17 EDT Last modified on Thu 3 Sep 2026 16.57 EDT Share Prefer the Guardian on Google The Venezuelan opposition leader María Corina Machado has questioned Donald Trump’s oil deal with Venezuela’s interim government, saying the country’s natural resources do not belong to “an illegitimate regime”. In her first public comments since Trump announced what he called “the biggest oil deal in world history” with Venezuela last Friday, Machado walked a diplomatic tightrope between challenging the agreement and trying not to rile the White House. In a video posted on social media, the Nobel peace prize winner said: “Of course the United States is the principal partner Venezuela needs to fully develop its strategic potential. This is what the majority of Venezuelans believe … and it is something I’ve spent my whole life defending.” However, Machado said, the current occupants of the Miraflores presidential palace in Caracas were “enemies of the US”, saying they did not have the right or the democratic mandate to negotiate Venezuela’s natural resources. “The wealth of our subsoil does not belong to an illegitimate regime – it belongs to the Venezuelan people,” she said, adding that supporters felt “sadness and anger” at being excluded from the decision-making process. Venezuela has the world’s largest proven crude oil reserves with an estimated 303bn barrels, of which more than 65bn barrels are involved in the agreement. Trump’s deal was struck with the un-elected interim president, Delcy Rodríguez, who took power in January after her predecessor, Nicolás Maduro, was abducted by US special forces. Many observers expected Trump to replace Maduro with Machado, a conservative democracy activist who later gave the US president her Nobel prize award. But instead Trump backed Rodríguez, threatening: “If she doesn’t do what’s right, she is going to pay a very big price – probably bigger than Maduro”, and sidelined Machado. The White House claims the oil deal will help secure US “energy dominance for the next century” as well as “purging foreign malign influence from our back yard” by excluding China and Russia. Speaking outside the Miraflores palace on Wednesday, the US energy secretary, Chris Wright, said the aim was “to massively grow production and economic opportunities in Venezuela”, adding: “President Trump has a clear mission in Venezuela. The mission is to bring peace, freedom, opportunity, and prosperity to everyone in Venezuela.” But there has been widespread condemnation of what critics call a predatory and colonial-style land grab. Machado’s supporters fear the deal makes Washington far less inclined to push for fresh presidential elections. Machado’s movement is widely believed to have beaten Maduro by a landslide in the last such vote, in 2024, but he refused to accept the result and clung to power until his dramatic rendition on 3 January this year. On Wednesday, Trump and Rodríguez brushed off questions about when an election might be held. “You had a very powerful, very nasty dictatorship in Venezuela – and they’re just not going to be ready for it yet,” Trump told reporters, before adding vaguely: “But soon.” Rodríguez said: “There will be an electoral process, but when Venezuela is ready. “I don’t set dates,” she added. Explore more on these topics Venezuela Americas news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story The US and Venezuela: a century-old relationship drenched in oil 5d ago Trump ally defends Venezuela oil deal amid ‘gunpoint diplomacy’ criticism 6d ago Delcy Rodríguez replaces Venezuela’s top military commanders 20 Mar 2026 Venezuela’s Delcy Rodríguez defends ‘endless’ benefits of her oil deal with Trump 30 Aug 2026 ‘I’m going to fight’: freed Venezuelan activist on life after Maduro’s downfall 22 Feb 2026 Prominent Venezuelan opposition politician detained hours after release 9 Feb 2026 Venezuelan opposition up in arms over reports US wants big stake in oil and gas 28 Aug 2026 ‘It’s a farce’: families of Venezuela political prisoners still await their release 26 Jan 2026 Venezuela’s interim government and opposition to begin formal talks 15 Jul 2026 US lifts sanctions on Venezuela’s acting president Delcy Rodríguez 2 Apr 2026 Most viewed Most viewed World Europe US news Americas Asia Australia Middle East Africa Inequality Global development News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work with us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr) 