 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 ‘All effed up’: Congress’ early funding deal comes with some big problems later 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Live TV 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Rachel Maddow 
 
 

 
 
 Morning Joe 
 
 

 
 
 Deadline: White House 
 
 

 
 
 Our Shows
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Opinion 
 
 

 
 
 Newsletters 
 
 

 
 
 Community 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Explore 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 ‘All effed up’: Congress’ early funding deal comes with some big problems later 

 
 

 
 Share this: 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 TRENDING NOW 
 
 
 
 Labor Day 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. rejects U.N. world map 
 
 
 
 
 N.H. Democratic Senate primary 
 
 
 
 
 Miami cargo plane crash 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Massachusetts House Results Senate Governor 2026 Primary Calendar Races to Watch More Elections Coverage 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Rachel Maddow Show 
 Mondays at 9PM ET 
 
 

 
 
 
 Morning Joe 
 Weekdays at 6AM ET 
 
 

 
 
 
 Deadline: White House with Nicolle Wallace 
 Weekdays at 4PM ET 
 
 

 
 
 
 The Last Word with Lawrence O'Donnell 
 Weeknights at 10PM ET 
 
 

 
 
 
 The Briefing with Jen Psaki 
 Tuesdays – Fridays at 9PM ET 
 
 

 
 
 
 The Weeknight 
 Weeknights at 7PM ET 
 
 

 
 
 
 The 11th Hour with Ali Velshi 
 Weeknights at 11PM ET 
 
 

 
 
 
 State of Play with Peter Alexander 
 Weekdays at 11AM ET 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 More Shows
 
 

 
 
 
 All In with Chris Hayes 
 Weeknights at 8PM ET 
 
 

 
 
 
 Money, Power, Politics with Stephanie Ruhle 
 Weekdays at 9AM ET 
 
 

 
 
 
 The Beat with Ari Melber 
 Weeknights at 6PM ET 
 
 

 
 
 
 Connect with Jacob Soboroff 
 Weekends at 10AM ET 
 
 

 
 
 
 PoliticsNation with Al Sharpton 
 Weekends at 5PM ET 
 
 

 
 
 
 The Moment with Katy Tur 
 Weekdays at 2PM ET 
 
 

 
 
 
 On the Line with Alicia Menendez 
 Weekdays at 12PM ET 
 
 

 
 
 
 The Weekend 
 Weekends at 7AM ET 
 
 

 
 
 
 Way Too Early with Ali Vitali 
 Weekdays at 5AM ET 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 -->
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MS NOW TV
 
 

 
 
 Watch Live 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Our Shows
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Rachel Maddow Show 
 
 
 
 
 Morning Joe 
 
 
 
 
 Deadline: White House with Nicolle Wallace 
 
 
 
 
 The Last Word with Lawrence O’Donnell 
 
 
 
 
 The Briefing with Jen Psaki 
 
 
 
 
 The Weeknight 
 
 
 
 
 11th Hour with Ali Velshi 
 
 
 
 
 State of Play with Peter Alexander 
 
 
 
 
 All In with Chris Hayes 
 
 
 
 
 Money, Power, Politics with Stephanie Ruhle 
 
 
 
 
 The Beat with Ari Melber 
 
 
 
 
 Connect with Jacob Soboroff 
 
 
 
 
 PoliticsNation with Al Sharpton 
 
 
 
 
 The Moment with Katy Tur 
 
 
 
 
 The Weekend 
 
 
 
 
 Way Too Early with Ali Vitali 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Listen Live 
 
 

 
 
 TV Schedule 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 For Members
 
 

 
 
 Live Q&As 
 
 

 
 
 Member-Exclusive Series 
 
 

 
 
 Community 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 More from MS NOW
 
 

 
 
 Opinion 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Topics
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Elections 
 
 

 
 
 White House 
 
 

 
 
 Congress 
 
 

 
 
 Supreme Court 
 
 

 
 
 Culture 
 
 

 
 
 World 
 
 

 
 
 Science & Tech 
 
 

 
 
 Civil Rights 
 
 

 
 
 Business 
 
 

 
 
 Sports 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Events 
 
 

 
 
 Podcasts 
 
 

 
 
 Newsletters 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 News 
 
 
 ‘All effed up’: Congress’ early funding deal comes with some big problems later 
 
 The House overwhelmingly passed a stopgap bill to fund the government into December, but lawmakers are pessimistic about future negotiations on a number of items. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Speaker of the House Mike Johnson, R-La., is surrounded by security and staff as he arrives to a House Republican conference meeting in the U.S. Capitol on Sept. 1, 2026. 
 
 Finn Gomez / Getty Images 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 By  
 
 
 Jack Fitzpatrick 
 

 Sept. 1, 2026, 2:07 PM EDT 

 
 

 
 The normal cadence of government funding is that Congress runs up against a cliff and lawmakers pass an extension to buy themselves more time.  

 On Tuesday, Republicans and Democrats did something a little different: They passed their stopgap a month before the deadline.  
 
 

 Although current funding doesn’t expire until Oct. 1, House lawmakers pushed through a bill to extend government operations until Dec. 11, potentially clearing the way for GOP leaders to keep members on the campaign trail for the next two months until Election Day.  

 The House voted 370-48 on the Senate-passed spending bill, with 193 Republicans, 176 Democrats and one independent voting for the measure, and 19 Republicans and 29 Democrats opposing it, sending the bill to President Donald Trump’s desk for his signature.   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Play 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Rieckhoff slams DOJ $1.8 billion fund: ‘You cannot believe anything this government says’ 
 
 June 11, 2026 / 06:35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 While the bill’s passage is a brief success for congressional leaders — avoiding a shutdown right before the midterm elections — the process for passing the legislation outraged conservatives, who opposed a provision to delay a ban on intoxicating hemp products. 

 GOP leaders relied heavily on Democratic votes to pass the funding measure and overcome the opposition to the hemp provision, which would delay the ban from Nov. 12 to Dec. 11 . Because GOP leaders passed the bill through suspension of the rules — which requires a two-thirds majority but doesn’t require a rule to bring the bill to the House floor — conservatives who were upset with both the process and the substance of the legislation didn’t have much opportunity to express their frustration. 

 Instead, some rankled conservatives opposed a rule for a series of other, unrelated measures — including a resolution denouncing socialism — to protest the fact that they didn’t get to vote on an amendment to remove the hemp measure. Ultimately, five Republicans voted against the rule, but two Democrats joined the rest of the GOP to overcome their opposition and pave the way for the consideration of those other measures. 
 
 

 Although the funding bill’s passage is a win for leaders, it is still just a temporary deal, meaning lawmakers will have to resume negotiations in December. And there are certain to be plenty of disagreements — on funding levels, on hemp products and on Office of Management and Budget Director Russell Vought’s role in steering federal grants. 

 For now, however, conservatives were stewing over Speaker Mike Johnson’s reliance on Democratic votes. 

 “It defeats the entire legislative process,” Rep. Andy Harris, R-Md., who chairs the House Freedom Caucus, told reporters Tuesday. “The House and the Senate disagree on the continuing resolution. We should go to conference, or we should have a vote on — an individual vote on — the Senate’s ridiculous provisions.” 

 But in the end, the House and Senate didn’t disagree, even if a large group of House conservatives were frustrated with the delayed ban on hemp products.  

 The conservative opposition to an unrelated rule — which has become a trend under this Congress — left Rep. Jim McGovern, D-Mass., with a simple conclusion. 
 
 

 “I think they’re all effed up, to be honest with you,” McGovern, the top Democrat on the House Rules Committee, told MS NOW. “They don’t know whether they’re coming or going.” 

 McGovern cited poor management by GOP leaders, noting that this week’s House agenda — aside from the government funding measure — largely consists of symbolic measures like the resolution denouncing socialism. 
 More articles 

 
 

 
 
 House Republicans caved — and changed the politics of government shutdowns 
 
 
 James Downie 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Congress is back to square one on the DHS shutdown after House GOP rejects Senate deal 
 
 
 Kevin Frey 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 “The stuff we’re doing this week — putting the continuing resolution aside — is all bullshit,” McGovern said. “I mean, nonbinding bills on socialism and condemning this and condemning that. None of this stuff addresses the cost of living. None of this stuff addresses the high gas prices, the high cost of healthcare, the high cost of rent.” 

 Funding the government through Dec. 11 only provides a brief reprieve for negotiators, who have made little headway so far this year. House Appropriations Committee Chairman Tom Cole, R-Okla., told reporters Tuesday that it’s simply not enough time to negotiate a funding deal, noting that his Senate counterparts haven’t released a single bill, while his committee had at least marked up all 12 funding measures. 

 “The Senate has wasted the entire year and a half,” Cole said. “I mean, they have not passed a single bill. All 12 bills were done in the House out of committee in June. There’s no excuse for not having a single one done.” 
 
 

 Cole said he blames Democrats in the Senate and not Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, who chairs the Appropriations Committee. 

 Democrats secured a measure in the stopgap funding bill to temporarily block a rule by the OMB to give political appointees more control over federal grants. The provision gives Democrats a temporary win over Vought, though it also will be up for negotiation in December. 

 Rep. Rosa DeLauro, D-Conn., the top House Democratic appropriator, pitched colleagues on the OMB provision in a Tuesday morning meeting, which helped secure Democratic support, Rep. Don Beyer, D-Va., told MS NOW.  

 Still, he said his expectations for a productive December are “minimalist” because of the dysfunction in the GOP-controlled House. 

 “The Freedom Caucus will still be there,” Beyer said. 
 
 

 Nour Longi contributed to this report. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Jack Fitzpatrick 
 

 
 Jack Fitzpatrick covers Congress for MS NOW. He previously reported for Bloomberg Government, Morning Consult and National Journal. He has bachelor's and master's degrees from Arizona State University. 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Become a Member to join the discussion 
 
 

 Comments Join the Conversation › 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Get full access to exclusive coverage and member-only content 
 
 Upcoming Live Q&A 
 
 
 
 Morning Joe Family Meeting 
 
 Join Joe Scarborough and the Morning Joe family every Tuesday for an opportunity to speak with the hosts about what's on your mind. 
 
 
 Today 
 
 
 
 12:00 PM EDT 
 
 
 
 
 
 Become a Member 
 Join now 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 White House 

 
 
 
 
 
 Trump won the battle over his awful arch. The next Democratic president can win the war. Paul Waldman 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 The EPA doesn’t think your opposition to data centers needs to be heard Derrick Z. Jackson 
 
 
 
 Canada’s tariffs hit Tuesday — but their effect on the midterms is just beginning Adam Hudacek 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Congress 

 
 
 
 
 
 Republicans are preparing for a blue wave by doing one thing: Protecting Trump Hayes Brown 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 Trump’s MAGA Inc. steers $10 million to boost Ken Paxton for Senate Hunter Woodall 
 
 
 
 Kyrsten Sinema can be sued under North Carolina’s ‘homewrecker’ law, judge rules The Associated Press 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Supreme Court 

 
 
 
 
 
 Trump administration again presses Supreme Court on mail-in voting limits Erum Salam 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 Supreme Court grants relief for Republicans on campaign ad rates Jordan Rubin 
 
 
 
 Justice Kavanaugh won’t order proof of citizenship measure to go on Michigan ballot Jordan Rubin 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Newsletters 
 
 View All 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MS NOW’s We The People 
 
 MS NOW’s community newsletter, featuring exclusive insights from hosts and experts, delivered biweekly 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Rachel Maddow Show 
 
 The best of Rachel, including video highlights and the latest from The MaddowBlog, delivered daily 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Blueprint with Jen Psaki 
 
 Jen Psaki chronicles the players, issues and movements shaping the future of the Democratic Party, delivered weekly 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 Meet the Team 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Everything MS NOW, all together. Discover the shows everyone's talking about. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Explore 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Explore 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Explore 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Explore 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Explore 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Explore 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Explore 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Explore 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Explore 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Explore 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 About 
 
 

 
 
 Contact 
 
 

 
 
 Help 
 
 

 
 
 Community Guidelines 
 
 

 
 
 Careers 
 
 

 
 
 AD Choices 
 
 

 
 
 Privacy Policy 
 
 

 
 
 Your Privacy Choices 
 
 

 
 
 CA Notice 
 
 

 
 
 Terms of Service 
 
 

 
 
 MS NOW Sitemap 
 
 

 
 
 Closed Captioning 
 
 

 
 
 Advertise 
 
 

 
 
 Join the MS NOW insights Community 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Get the MS NOW App
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 ©  2026 Versant Media, LLC
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
