U.S. Hiring Jumps, an Encouraging Sign for the Economy - The New York Times

Employers added 162,000 jobs in August, and the unemployment rate held steady at 4.1 percent. But wage growth is not keeping up with rising inflation.
Monthly change in jobs
Latest
Hiring was unexpectedly strong in August, as employers pushed past uncertainty related the war in Iran, tariffs and artificial intelligence to expand their payrolls.
Employers added 162,000 jobs last month, the Labor Department reported on Friday, and the unemployment rate held steady at 4.1 percent.
Job gains for June and July were revised up by 55,000, adding to the brighter picture of the labor market. Growth in August was especially strong in the leisure and hospitality sector, which added 62,000 positions.
“This is a summer heat wave,” said Diane Swonk, the chief economist at KPMG.
The report will reinforce the Federal Reserve’s focus on stamping out inflation when officials there consider whether to raise rates later this month.
Here’s what else to know:
Wages cool: Wage growth continued to cool in August, with average hourly earnings rising 3.1 percent compared to a year ago. That was the slowest pace since the depths of the pandemic and lower than the inflation rate.
Stagnation situation: Despite signs in the spring that hiring was gaining momentum, there were concerns that the labor market was reverting to a ho-hum state. Job openings and the rate of hiring have stalled even as layoffs remain exceedingly low. This report, however, is an encouraging sign that the fragile labor market may be on sturdier footing.
Fewer workers: Employers have been contending with a shrinking supply of available workers because of an aging population and restrictive immigration policies. Hundreds of thousands of people from Haiti and other countries have also lost their ability to work legally following the Trump administration’s move to end their temporary protected status.
Open wallets: Despite higher gas prices brought on by the war in Iran, consumer spending remained surprisingly resilient in recent months. That continued demand for goods and services has helped keep the labor market afloat.
Dour outlook: Though the labor market has stayed steady, people seeking employment, including recent college graduates, have had trouble finding work. Wages are failing to keep up with inflation, which has been lifted anew by those higher gas prices. These dynamics could help explain why so many Americans are downbeat about the economy.
President Trump threatened on Friday to halt a broad swath of U.S. trade unless the Federal Reserve slashed interest rates, issuing a series of sweeping ultimatums that could prove costly to the economy if he were to carry it out.
The Fed is a politically independent institution, and it has long kept rates steady as it tries to tame years of persistent inflation. Mr. Trump’s demand risked undermining that work, all the while choking off commerce in ways that could harm American families and businesses.
The president delivered his threat on a day that began on a positive note for the White House. Newly released hiring figures showed that employers added about 162,000 jobs in August, evincing a labor market that has successfully weathered a range of shocks under Mr. Trump — from the global trade war he commenced last year to the war with Iran that has intensified recently.
On social media, Mr. Trump heralded that development, before seizing on the employment figures to issue new demands. He called on the Fed to reduce borrowing costs to “the LOWEST RATE of any country in the World.”
The Fed has kept rates steady since December, as it tries to discern whether recent economic turbulence is a short-term problem or a longer-term driver of higher prices. Contrary to the president’s calls for cuts, some Fed policymakers have signaled they are considering whether to raise rates, perhaps as soon as this month, after failing for more than five years to bring inflation down to the central bank’s 2 percent target.
But Mr. Trump insisted on Friday that the U.S. economy was “STRONG” and, as a result, could afford to reduce rates immediately. Such a move could actually worsen inflation, but Mr. Trump did not acknowledge the risk as he signaled he could interrupt global trade.
“LOWER THE RATE OR I’LL STOP TRADING WITH COUNTRIES WITH WHICH WE HAVE A DEFICIT, which the U.S. Supreme Court, in its ridiculous and very costly Tariff decision, strongly acknowledged ‘the President’ has an absolute right to do,” Mr. Trump said.
The president doubled down during a brief appearance in the Oval Office, where he lamented that other countries had lower rates than the United States.
“If we don’t trade with them, they don’t have any money to pay the bills,” he said. “And, if we’re not going to be treated properly, we’re going to do that. And all we have to do to cut our trade deficit with a country is not trade with them.”
Globally, the U.S. trade deficit in goods and services rose to its biggest gap in 16 months in July, according to government data released this week. The list of countries with which the United States has a trade deficit is lengthy, including its neighbors, Canada and Mexico; nations in the European Union; and others including China. Together, that represents a substantial amount of the products that American families buy and U.S. businesses import.
Some economists see the imbalance as a sign of strength for the United States, one caused partly by surging domestic demand for the electronics that help to power artificial intelligence. But Mr. Trump disagrees and has sought to apply substantial tariffs globally in the hopes of driving down the imbalance.
“We could do tremendous good for ourselves by just not trading with countries,” Mr. Trump said Friday.
He also mused aloud that the United States could “end all trade with Canada,” before pivoting back to his attack on the Fed. “What I’m saying very simply is that, we should be paying the lowest interest rate in the world,” he said.
Mr. Trump’s remarks hardly appeared to help matters on Wall Street, contributing to a down day for stocks that only further stoked his ire. While the dip began shortly after the release of the jobs report, the drop in the financial markets nonetheless recalled the tumult that characterized the earliest days of the president’s punishing global trade war.
It also marked Mr. Trump’s latest attempt to apply pressure to the Fed, even after securing the confirmation of his handpicked chairman, Kevin M. Warsh. The president has made no secret about his views on monetary policy or the lengths he is willing to go to achieve them, even targeting — and trying to oust — Fed officials who do not share his stance.
The Fed’s decision on interest rates later this month hinges in part on inflation data coming out next Friday. Investors started to ratchet up bets about a possible increase after Mr. Warsh signaled in a speech last week that he was open to the idea. He did not explicitly call for a rate increase.
Other top policymakers this week conveyed different degrees of urgency around the need to raise rates.
On Thursday, Christopher J. Waller, a Fed governor, said a “hot” report on inflation from the Bureau of Labor Statistics would compel him to support a rate increase. But if there is further evidence that inflation was not getting worse, he said, he would be inclined to hold rates steady.
“What’s the cost of waiting one meeting? Hiking 25 basis points one meeting right now is not going to bring the C.P.I. down to 2 percent,” Mr. Waller said, referring to the bureau’s Consumer Price Index. “You want to take a chance to see if disinflation continues, but I’m not taking a big chance on it.”
Michael S. Barr, a Fed governor, said on Tuesday that if inflation data showed continued signs of progress, then the Fed could afford to take more time to assess if rate rises were needed.
“However, if inflation appears not to be moderating sufficiently, then I think we should act decisively to raise rates,” Mr. Barr said.
Change in jobs by sector since 2022
Advertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENTThe Treasury Department announced the latest measure in its Operation Economic Outcast initiative on Friday, imposing sanctions on Golden Global Yatirim Bankasi Anonim Sirketi, a Turkish financial institution that the United States says has facilitated tens of millions of dollars’ worth of transactions for the Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps’ overseas operations unit, the Quds Force. “While we hope no more banks will need to be sanctioned, that ultimately depends on how quickly the international community comes to its senses and ceases support of the murderous Iranian regime,” Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said in a statement.
To be clear, the U.S. has trade deficits with some of its closest allies and trading partners. The list includes its neighbors, Canada and Mexico, the European Union and others including China. Trump essentially said he could cut that trade off entirely in an attempt to force the Fed, a politically independent institution, to reduce rates, even though doing so could make inflation worse.
Then, President Trump turned to trade.
“LOWER THE RATE OR I’LL STOP TRADING WITH COUNTRIES WITH WHICH WE HAVE A DEFICIT, which the U.S. Supreme Court, in its ridiculous and very costly Tariff decision, strongly acknowledged “the President” has an absolute right to do. IT’S BETTER THAN TARIFFS!”
“The Fed Board, with its great new leader, must get smart - BE PATRIOTS for a change. High interest rates put the U.S.A. at a very unfair disadvantage, and I won’t allow that to happen!”
President Trump took to social media to boast about the strong jobs report and issue a series of demands. He called on the Federal Reserve to slash interest rates and threatened to halt trade with countries with which the United States has a trade deficit.
“Lower the interest rates because the U.S.A. is a much stronger credit than it was just a short time ago!” the president said Friday. “A STRONG COUNTRY MEANS A LOWER INTEREST RATE - IT’S A BETTER CREDIT…Very simple! We should have the LOWEST RATE of any country in the World, like ‘the old days.’”
Advertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENTThere has been a hint of good news on the data-collection front: After years of battling declining response rates, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that collection rates for its preliminary payrolls estimates have been edging up in recent months. Response rates for the monthly survey of households haven’t improved, however, although they may have stabilized somewhat.
The S&P 500 opened around 0.1 percent down when markets began trading on Friday. Interest rates on the 10-year and 2-year Treasuries, which spiked following hotter-than-expected jobs data, have eased in the last hour.
S&P 500 index
How stocks are trading in the United States
The Trump administration often talks about private sector job growth outperforming the public sector. Since February of 2025, government employment has contracted by 1.2 percent, while the private sector has grown 0.6 percent.
One concerning spot in the employment report over the past year has been unemployment for young people, between the ages of 16 and 24. That number bounced back up to 9.1 percent last month, though it’s still better than the 10.6 percent we saw at this time last year, and it’s quite low by historical standards. (That is a different measurement than the share of people in that age bracket who are participating in the labor force, which is also historically low since young adults are much more likely to be in school.)
Advertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENTAlong with the unemployment rate, which has been remarkably steady, economists also look at a broader measure of labor market slack that includes people who have been discouraged from looking for jobs or who want more hours and can’t get them. That metric sank to 7.7 percent, the lowest level since last June, in a sign that people are finding some kind of work even if it’s not the full-time employment they would prefer.
On social media, Kush Desai, a White House spokesman, celebrated the new jobs report as a sign that President Trump’s “reindustrialization agenda continues to drive manufacturing and factory construction job growth.”
“America is in the middle of a historic investment boom, and the August jobs report is the latest data point showing how Americans are benefitting from the Trump administration’s pro-growth policies,” he said.
One number I’ve been watching closely the past few months has been the “prime-age participation rate,” or the share of people between 25 and 54 who are working or actively searching for work. That number jumped last year to a two-decade high but then fell sharply in June. Initially, the June decline looked like a fluke, but it didn’t bounce back in July or August, suggesting the drop might be real. The rate is still quite high, above its prepandemic level, but it is no longer looking quite so rosy.
Another sector showing some vigor is construction, which has added about 11,000 jobs per month on average this year, after losing jobs last year. A big driver of that is data center construction. The bulk of the growth is in nonresidential specialty trade contractors, which are the pipefitters, electricians, and other tradespeople. Those skilled workers are critical for installing large numbers of servers.
Advertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENTStaffing companies, which tend to add jobs when the labor market is strengthening, have been increasing hiring since reaching a postpandemic low point in December 2025. The category is heavily associated with manufacturing, so it could be a sign of that sector’s cautious turnaround.
The unemployment rate has now been at 4.5 percent or lower for 59 consecutive months, or nearly five straight years. That’s the longest such streak on record, dating back to the late 1940s.
The “information” sector, which broadly includes service jobs from media, telecom and tech, lost jobs again last month. It has been losing about 8,000 jobs per month over the past year. Since peaking in 2022, this broad industry has lost more than 300,000 jobs, roughly an 10 percent decline.
A 59,000-job jump in bars and restaurants is somewhat quizzical. Economists had expected a larger surge in leisure and hospitality employment during the World Cup in June and July, which didn’t materialize. The sector lost 75,000 jobs overall during those two months, so this looks like a bounce back that doesn’t equate to much when you take a longer view.
Advertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENTThe health care and social assistance sector, which had powered nearly all the job growth last year, is gradually losing steam. The sector added about 57,000 jobs per month on average in 2025, and has added about 50,000 on average this year. That’s still a healthy pace of growth — which is important to satisfy this aging nation’s increasing need for care — but it’s slowing is part of why the labor market has looked more sleepy this year.
The one-month swing in the labor market looks dramatic — from a loss of 23,000 jobs in July (now revised up to a gain of 21,000) to a gain of 162,000 jobs in August. But these estimates are based on surveys, and like any survey, they have a margin of error. Economists caution against reading too much into any one month of data, and instead focus on the changes over a few months. Employers have added an average of just over 70,000 jobs over the past three months. That’s a pretty solid number in the context of a labor force that is barely growing and an unemployment rate of 4.1 percent.
Before today’s data, the three-month average stood at 20,000 jobs. So today’s report suggests an acceleration, but not necessarily a fundamental change in direction.
The main determinant of whether the Fed raises rates later this month is not going to be this jobs report, but instead will be August’s inflation data. Christopher Waller, a governor, essentially said as much in remarks on Thursday. A report on producer prices plus the next Consumer Price Index report will give officials a better sense of whether a two-month trend in improving price pressures is continuing.
Manufacturing continues its gentle upward trend, adding 16,000 jobs last month. The sector is now 58,000 above a recent low in December 2025. Demand for data center equipment, new investments in drug manufacturing, defense production, and semiconductor plants are part of what could be powering the turnaround.
Advertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENTLydia’s point about cooling wage growth underscores why the Fed does not see the labor market as a source of inflationary pressure. That is an important point for officials who are contemplating whether to raise rates. If the main driver of inflation was a hot labor market, the Fed would likely be much more inclined to lift borrowing costs to restrain demand.
As many had suspected, local government education bounced back from previous losses, adding 42,000 jobs. That suggests the big drop earlier in the summer may have been a quirk of seasonal adjustment. Still, the sector has been flat since January 2025, as pandemic-era stimulus dollars have ebbed out of the public schools.
Advertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENTAdvertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENTAdvertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENTAdvertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENTAdvertisement
SKIP ADVERTISEMENT