WATCH LIVE: House passes short-term spending bill, staving off another fund fight during midterms | PBS News Full Episode Tuesday, Sep 1 Close Menu PBS NewsHour Episodes Podcasts Newsletters The Latest Politics Brooks and Capehart Politics Monday Supreme Court Arts CANVAS Poetry Now Read This Nation America at a Crossroads Supreme Court Race Matters Essays Brief But Spectacular World Agents for Change Compass Points Economy Making Sen$e Paul Solman Science The Leading Edge ScienceScope Basic Research Innovation and Invention Health Horizons Long-Term Care Education Teachers --> Teachers' Lounge Student Reporting Labs For Teachers Newshour Classroom About Feedback Funders Support Jobs Close Menu PBS News Menu Notifications Get news alerts from PBS News Turn on desktop notifications? Yes Not now Full Episodes Podcasts Newsletters Live By — Kevin Freking, Associated Press Kevin Freking, Associated Press Leave your feedback Share Copy URL https://www.pbs.org/newshour/politics/watch-live-house-passes-short-term-spending-bill-staving-off-another-fund-fight-during-midterms Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest Tumblr Share on Facebook Share on Twitter WATCH LIVE: House passes short-term spending bill, staving off another fund fight during midterms Politics Sep 1, 2026 2:21 PM EDT WASHINGTON (AP) — The House passed a short-term measure Tuesday to fund the federal government into early December, a move designed to avoid a chaotic shutdown as lawmakers campaign for reelection. Watch the House proceedings live in our video player above. Lawmakers needed to act before the fiscal year concludes at the end of September to avoid a funding lapse. They were determined not to bump up against that deadline during the campaign season following this past year's historic shutdowns. The House passed the bill by a vote of 370-48. The Senate has already overwhelmingly approved the measure, so it now moves to President Donald Trump's desk for his signature. "It gives the nation and our constituents certainty, certainty that the government will remain open, certainty that our service members will be paid," said Rep. Tom Cole, the Republican chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. A record 43-day shutdown occurred last fall when the two parties disagreed on renewing an expiring tax credit that lowers the cost of health coverage obtained through Affordable Care Act marketplaces. Then came the shutdown of the Department of Homeland Security, which lasted 76 days before lawmakers agreed to fund much of the department but not its immigration enforcement operations. Lawmakers were wary of a repeat before voters go to the polls. They also blamed the other party for the recent impasses. "We're going to avoid the threat of another Democratic shutdown," House Speaker Mike Johnson told reporters in advance of the vote. Rep. Rosa DeLauro, the lead Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, encouraged her Democratic colleagues to vote for the measure during a closed-door meeting Tuesday morning. READ MORE: Senate leaders reach funding deal to avoid shutdown during campaign season She said the bill was much improved from the product that passed the House earlier this summer on a mostly party-line basis. For example, she said it prevents the Department of Homeland Security from transferring funds to the Border Patrol, and it delays a proposed rule that would give political appointees in the Trump administration more authority to stop federal grants from going out for programs they view as not in line with the president's agenda. Those changes were made when the Senate approved its version of the bill. Democrats fear the administration will use the proposed regulation on grants to steer money away from Democratic-led states. DeLauro called the delay an important first step, but said more must be done to block the policy from taking effect. "Whether a community receives disaster relief should not depend on who they voted for in the last election," DeLauro said. The short-term measure funds federal agencies generally at current levels through Dec. 11. It will give lawmakers more time to find compromise on a full-year measure, though that will likely be quite difficult. Republicans are seeking hundreds of billions of dollars in additional spending for the military while cutting most non-defense programs. Democrats say that's a non-starter and insist on a bipartisan approach that treats domestic programs with parity. A free press is a cornerstone of a healthy democracy. Support trusted journalism and civil dialogue. Donate now Related GOP holdouts say they will back Blanche's AG bid after striking deal over 'anti-weaponization fund' By Mary Clare Jalonick, Alanna Durkin Richer, Associated Press Senate leaders reach funding deal to avoid shutdown during campaign season By Kevin Freking, Associated Press Trump's threat to push ahead on settlement fund injects new uncertainty into attorney general talks By Eric Tucker, Associated Press Go Deeper government shutdown mike johnson short-term funding bill u.s. house of representatives By — Kevin Freking, Associated Press Kevin Freking, Associated Press --> Support Provided By: Learn more Educate your inbox Subscribe to Here’s the Deal, our politics newsletter for analysis you won’t find anywhere else. Enter your email address Subscribe Form error message goes here. Thank you. Please check your inbox to confirm. Full Episode Tuesday, Sep 1 PBS News © 1996 - 2026 NewsHour Productions LLC. All Rights Reserved. PBS is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization. Sections The Latest Politics Arts Nation World Economy Science Health Education About About Us TV Schedule Press Feedback Funders Support Newsletters Podcasts Jobs Privacy Terms of Use Stay Connected Facebook YouTube Instagram X TikTok Threads RSS Subscribe to Here's the Deal with Lisa Desjardins Enter your email address Subscribe Form error message goes here. Thank you. Please check your inbox to confirm. Support our journalism Support for News Hour Provided By