At least 5 dead after Amazon cargo plane barreled off runway at Miami airport | PBS News

By — Anthony Izaguirre, Associated Press Anthony Izaguirre, Associated Press By — David Fischer, Associated Press David Fischer, Associated Press By — Josh Funk, Associated Press Josh Funk, Associated Press Share Copy URL https://www.pbs.org/newshour/nation/at-least-5-dead-after-amazon-cargo-plane-barreled-off-runway-at-miami-airport Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest Tumblr Share on Facebook Share on Twitter At least 5 dead after Amazon cargo plane barreled off runway at Miami airport Nation Updated on Sep 6, 2026 6:58 PM EDT — Published on Sep 6, 2026 5:56 PM EDT MIAMI (AP) — An Amazon cargo plane barreled off a runway at Miami International Airport on Sunday, killing at least five people as it struck vehicles and burst into flames, authorities said. The aircraft overran the runway around 2 p.m. after arriving from San Juan, Puerto Rico. Five people were killed, three critically injured and two others hospitalized with less severe injuries, Miami-Dade County officials told a news conference. Miami officials said Sunday afternoon that it was too soon to determine whether the people who died were on board the plane or in the vehicles the plane hit. READ MORE: Quick-thinking controller helps 2 planes with same flight number avoid possible disaster The crash, which sent thick black smoke billowing into the sky, trapped the pilot and copilot in the cockpit and some occupants in cars, said Miami-Dade Rescue Fire Chief Ray Jadallah. The agency said another person was trapped under a vehicle. It also halted flights at the busy travel hub for much of the afternoon. Fire crews were still dealing with a fuel leak on the plane several hours after the crash, Jadallah said. The Prime Air plane came to rest beside a roadway near two semi-trucks, images from the scene showed. The aircraft appeared to be resting on its belly and was largely intact despite the fire. More than The flight had been operated by 21 Air, a cargo carrier based in North Carolina. The 32-year-old Boeing 767 was originally built to carry passengers and flew for several airlines for more than two decades before being converted to a cargo plane in 2015, according to flight-tracking site Flightradar24. About 250 flights were delayed at the airport late afternoon Sunday, according to FlightAware, a website that tracks flight disruptions. The National Transportation Safety Board said it is sending a team to Miami led by Chairwoman Jennifer Homendy to investigate. Amazon said in a statement that it would cooperate with any investigation. "We're heartbroken to learn that five people lost their lives in today's incident at Miami International Airport," the company said. "Our deepest sympathies go out to the families, loved ones, and all those affected by this devastating loss." Jackson Lee, who runs an electronics shop near the crash site, went outside with four colleagues after the crash and saw smoke rising near the airport's fences, Lee said. "We hear planes taking off and landing every five minutes. I thought I'd got used to it," Lee said. "I never thought it could come this close to us." Funk reported from Omaha, Nebraska. Associated Press writers Tim Reynolds in Miami, Rio Yamat in Las Vegas and Wufei Yu in Phoenix contributed. A free press is a cornerstone of a healthy democracy. Support trusted journalism and civil dialogue. Donate now By — Anthony Izaguirre, Associated Press Anthony Izaguirre, Associated Press By — David Fischer, Associated Press David Fischer, Associated Press By — Josh Funk, Associated Press Josh Funk, Associated Press