Chevron expected to expand oil operations in Venezuela, U.S. official says | PBS News Full Episode Tuesday, Sep 1 Close Menu PBS NewsHour Episodes Podcasts Newsletters The Latest Politics Brooks and Capehart Politics Monday Supreme Court Arts CANVAS Poetry Now Read This Nation America at a Crossroads Supreme Court Race Matters Essays Brief But Spectacular World Agents for Change Compass Points Economy Making Sen$e Paul Solman Science The Leading Edge ScienceScope Basic Research Innovation and Invention Health Horizons Long-Term Care Education Teachers --> Teachers' Lounge Student Reporting Labs For Teachers Newshour Classroom About Feedback Funders Support Jobs Close Menu PBS News Menu Notifications Get news alerts from PBS News Turn on desktop notifications? Yes Not now Full Episodes Podcasts Newsletters Live By — Aamer Madhani, Associated Press Aamer Madhani, Associated Press By — Colin Brinkley, Associated press Colin Brinkley, Associated press Leave your feedback Share Copy URL https://www.pbs.org/newshour/world/chevron-expected-to-expand-oil-operations-in-venezuela-u-s-official-says Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest Tumblr Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Chevron expected to expand oil operations in Venezuela, U.S. official says World Updated on Sep 1, 2026 3:47 PM EDT — Published on Sep 1, 2026 1:33 PM EDT WASHINGTON (AP) — Oil giant Chevron is planning to expand its operations in Venezuela, a U.S. official said Tuesday, just days after President Donald Trump announced an ambitious deal to develop the nation's oil reserves and give the Pentagon a stake in the profits. The official, who briefed reporters on the expected announcement, said the company's officials and Energy Secretary Chris Wright are expected to visit Venezuela on Wednesday where the new investment will be formally unveiled. The official spoke on condition of anonymity under ground rules set by the White House for the call. WATCH: Analyst breaks down challenges U.S. will face to unlock Venezuela's oil Chevron is the second-largest U.S. oil company and the only one with a major presence in Venezuela. Chevron did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The announcement comes after the White House confirmed on Monday it is partnering with North American Blue Energy Partners (NABEP) as part of President Donald Trump's push to tap into Venezuela's oil industry. The sweeping agreement has been met with skepticism from analysts who say it will take years to revive Venezuela's production. They have questioned whether Venezuela's acting President Delcy Rodríguez has the legal authority to give the company 100-year rights over 17 oil fields with reserves of 65 billion barrels — and whether future Venezuelan or American administrations would overturn the agreement. US official says private operator was vetted ahead of deal NABEP, owned by Venezuelan businessman Alejandro Betancourt, is already the second largest operator in Venezuela. The deal with the U.S. government would create a new company, where the Pentagon would take a 35% ownership stake, and the State Department would have the right to buy 20% of the oil produced at cost. The U.S. administration sought to defend its decision to partner with Betancourt, who has faced criminal investigations for alleged money laundering in Spain and Switzerland, according to multiple media reports. No formal charges were ever filed. The official said that Betancourt was vetted and the administration found that "no U.S. laws were violated." At the same time, the official described Betancourt as the only viable partner available for the job, saying that "you have to work with the factors that you have in place." The U.S. government is not investing money in the new company, the official told reporters, but its backing will help the company attract investment to ramp up production. Analysts say that the deal seems certain to face legal challenges and potentially questions of legitimacy. The Trump administration negotiated the agreement with Rodriguez, who took power after the January military operation to capture Nicolás Maduro and spirit him to the United States to face federal narcoterrorism and drug trafficking charges. The Venezuelan Constitution states that contracts of this kind with foreign governments must also be approved by the National Assembly, which did not occur. But the official said that agreement is a partnership with North American Blue Energy Partners, a private entity which is headquartered in Barbados and has its primary regional office and operations in Caracas, Venezuela. Deal being pitched as a step toward stability, democracy for Venezuelans The Trump administration wants elections to happen as quickly as feasible, but is aiming to maintain stability as it helps Venezuela transition following decades of autocratic rule, the official said. The official argued that maintaining stability during such transitions "almost invariably requires you to work with elements of the existing structure, even as you are creating a new one." WATCH: Aid worker describes crisis in Venezuela, one month after devastating earthquakes The Pentagon's role in the deal comes through its Office of Strategic Capital, which was created under former President Joe Biden to invest in technology needed for national security. A second U.S. official speaking on condition of anonymity described the Venezuela agreement as "a very standard deal" and said the office has made several similar ones since Trump returned to office. Trump says other companies are readying for business Trump has had his eyes on Venezuela's oil since Maduro's capture, and his aides call it a path away from reliance on oil from the Middle East. Trump has been pressing to get U.S. businesses to restore a presence in the country. President Hugo Chávez completed the nationalization of Venezuela's oil industry in 2007, leading major players like ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips to leave Caracas. Talking to reporters at the White House on Monday, Trump suggested that other oil companies were readying for business in Venezuela. "We have Exxon going in, we have Chevron going in. We have our big oil companies going in," he said. ExxonMobil did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Trump in January said he was inclined to leave Exxon out of Venezuela after CEO Darren Woods called the country "uninvestable." Chevron has been the only major American oil company actively operating in Venezuela since the nationalization. Trump was scheduled to meet with a group of large and small oil refiners on Tuesday to discuss ways to increase America's capacity to refine oil into gasoline. The White House has said that increasing the number of refineries and expanding the capacity at existing facilities would eventually reduce prices for consumers. The administration also sees the need for more refineries to process oil from Venezuela. A free press is a cornerstone of a healthy democracy. Support trusted journalism and civil dialogue. Donate now Left: Venezuela's interim President Delcy Rodriguez, U.S. Energy Secretary Chris Wright and U.S. Charge d'Affaires for Venezuela Laura Dogu visit oil production facilities at the joint venture between Chevron and state oil company PDVSA in the Orinoco Oil Belt, following an agreement to pursue long-term energy cooperation after recent sanction relief and legal reforms that opened Venezuela's oil sector to greater foreign investment, in Maturin, Monagas state, Venezuela February 12, 2026. Miraflores Palace/Handout via REUTERS Related What we know about Trump's deal giving U.S. access to vast oil reserves in Venezuela By Collin Binkley, Juan Pablo Arraez, Associated Press Trump says U.S. has entered deal with Venezuela to control 65 billion barrels of its oil reserves By Aamer Madhani, Associated Press WATCH: Trump says Venezuela is 'not ready yet' for elections after U.S. ouster of Maduro By Associated Press Venezuela's Nicolás Maduro back to court for pretrial hearing in his U.S. drug trafficking case By Michael R. Sisak, Larry Neumeister, Associated Press Illnesses surge in quake-hit Venezuelan communities as humanitarian crisis builds By Regina Garcia Cano, Associated Press Go Deeper chevron chris wright oil venezuela By — Aamer Madhani, Associated Press Aamer Madhani, Associated Press By — Colin Brinkley, Associated press Colin Brinkley, Associated press --> Support Provided By: Learn more Educate your inbox Subscribe to Here’s the Deal, our politics newsletter for analysis you won’t find anywhere else. Enter your email address Subscribe Form error message goes here. Thank you. Please check your inbox to confirm. Full Episode Tuesday, Sep 1 PBS News © 1996 - 2026 NewsHour Productions LLC. All Rights Reserved. PBS is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization. Sections The Latest Politics Arts Nation World Economy Science Health Education About About Us TV Schedule Press Feedback Funders Support Newsletters Podcasts Jobs Privacy Terms of Use Stay Connected Facebook YouTube Instagram X TikTok Threads RSS Subscribe to Here's the Deal with Lisa Desjardins Enter your email address Subscribe Form error message goes here. Thank you. Please check your inbox to confirm. Support our journalism Support for News Hour Provided By