 Von der Leyen: Greenland is choosing Europe and Europe is choosing Greenland – POLITICO Skip to main content Advertisement Menu Search for: Search Edition: Europe Europe UK France Germany US Policy areas Agriculture and Food Central Banker Competition and Industrial Policy Cybersecurity and Data Protection Defense Energy and Climate Energy and Climate UK Energie et Climat France Energie & Klima DE Financial Services Financial Services UK Gesundheit Health Care Industrie & Handel DE Mobility Paris Influence Sustainability Technology Tech France Technologie & KI Technology UK Trade Trade UK Newsletters Berlin Playbook Brussels Playbook Dimanchissime EU Influence Forecast Global Playbook Global Policy Lab: Living Cities Global Security Le Weekly London Influence London Playbook Playbook Paris Sunday Crunch Podcasts Brussels Playbook Podcast Westminster Insider Politics at Sam and Anne's Playbook Paris Podcast Berlin Playbook — Der Podcast Power & Policy Inside AfD Opinion All Opinion Beyond the Bubble Germany Interpreted Declassified From Across the Pond Unpacked Featured Series Irish Presidency of the EU Europe’s looming water crisis Breaking out: Stories of Roma empowerment COP30 A global emergency: Tackling antimicrobial resistance Living Cities POLITICO 28 Poll of polls Elections in Europe European Parliament election Politico Live See All Future Events About our events Apps Apple Store Google Play Store More Info About us Media Solutions POLITICO Studio Press Print Edition Contact Us Careers at POLITICO POLITICO Pro Europe Europe UK France Germany US Log In POLITICO Pro Home Latest news War in Iran Energy crisis War in Ukraine Newsletters NEW: Canberra Playbook NEW: Surge Podcasts Poll of Polls Policy news Events News Politics Von der Leyen: Greenland is choosing Europe and Europe is choosing Greenland Brussels is putting €200 million behind a deeper Greenland partnership as von der Leyen signals a bigger EU push in the Arctic. Copy Link Copied Share via email Share on X Share on WhatsApp Share on LinkedIn Ursula von der Leyen, Jens-Frederik Nielsen and Mette Frederiksen hold a press conference in Nuuk, Greenland on Sept. 7, 2026. | Mads Claus Rasmussen/Ritzau Scanpix/AFP via Getty Images September 7, 2026 4:17 pm CET By Gerardo Fortuna Greenland is making a “clear choice” to strengthen ties with the EU, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said Monday, as Brussels unveiled a €200 million investment package and moved to deepen its political, economic and security footprint in the Arctic. Speaking in Nuuk alongside Greenlandic Premier Jens-Frederik Nielsen and Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen, von der Leyen cast the relationship as a two-way partnership. The renewed EU-Greenland declaration, she said, “reflects a clear choice expressed by Greenland to strengthen ties with the European Union,” while also demonstrating Europe’s own decision “to be more present” and more engaged in Greenland and across the Arctic. Advertisement Advertisement U.S. President Donald Trump has made repeated threats to take over Greenland. In July, he said that “Greenland … should be controlled by the United States, not by Denmark” at the outset of a NATO summit in Turkey. The Arctic has rapidly climbed up Brussels’ geopolitical agenda. Von der Leyen said the region had become a place “where the tectonic plates of geopolitics collide,” adding that the EU has a direct stake in developments there and is preparing a new Arctic strategy for presentation this fall. The Arctic is also expected to feature prominently in von der Leyen’s State of the Union speech next week, as Brussels prepares the revamped strategy. She also reiterated that Greenland’s future is for the people of Greenland and Denmark to decide. The two-day visit, which began Sunday, was aimed at turning the political message into concrete projects. A Commission official said the trip had been months in the making but was postponed at Frederiksen’s request due to Danish elections in March. Von der Leyen signed a renewed joint declaration with Greenland and Denmark and unveiled a €200 million EU partnership package for this year and next. Advertisement Advertisement At Greenlandic telecom operator Tusass, she launched a satellite connectivity project designed to improve internet access in remote communities. Brussels will also support hydropower development and work with Greenland on mining projects intended to more closely link the island’s raw materials to European industry. The broader declaration expands cooperation into education, infrastructure, fisheries, tourism, housing, research, climate action, civil protection, cybersecurity and Arctic resilience. Von der Leyen also pointed to the longer-term relationship, saying the Commission has proposed more than doubling EU funding for Greenland to €530 million through 2034. Related Tags Cooperation Raw materials Satellites Security State of the Union Related Countries Denmark Greenland Related People Jens-Frederik Nielsen Mette Frederiksen Ursula von der Leyen Our readers read next Exclusive EU pursues closer Israel ties on air defense and space 2 HRS ago 3 mins read US escalates ahead of UK trade sanctions on Israeli settlements 7 HRS ago 4 mins read Merz has no good answers as the far right targets his downfall 14 HRS ago 6 mins read Costa puts EU taxes at heart of his grand budget tour 22 HRS ago 7 mins read More from Gerardo Fortuna Exclusive Climate and AI to loom large in von der Leyen’s State of the Union Drafting is advancing on a speech that will set the course for the next phase of Ursula von der Leyen’s Commission. Aug 28 3 mins read Brussels rises against FIFA President Infantino’s plan to bring in private investors A proposal to privatize FIFA’s commercial operations is the latest episode to draw criticism from Brussels officials and lawmakers. Jul 29 3 mins read EU Commission weighs seconding officials to work in other countries “There’s a readiness to reform the Commission,” says HR Commissioner Piotr Serafin. Jul 13 4 mins read EU calls for ‘fair play’ after Trump’s red card intervention rocks World Cup Brussels warns political influence should not shape sporting decisions, as the world governing body suspends ban to let U.S. star Folarin Balogun play against Belgium. Jul 6 3 mins read Facebook Twitter YouTube App Store Play Store Policy Agriculture and Food Central Banker Competition and Industrial Policy Cybersecurity and Data Protection Defense Energy and Climate Energy and Climate UK Energie et Climat France Financial Services Financial Services UK Gesundheit Health Care Industrie & Handel Mobility Paris Influence Sustainability Technology Tech France Technologie & KI Technology UK Trade Trade UK Newsletters Berlin Playbook Brussels Playbook Dimanchissime EU Influence Global Playbook Global Policy Lab: Living Cities Global Security London Influence London Playbook Le Weekly Playbook Paris Sunday Crunch Podcasts Brussels Playbook Podcast Westminster Insider Playbook Paris Podcast Politics at Sam and Anne's Berlin Playbook — Der Podcast Power & Policy Inside AfD Opinion All Opinion Beyond the Bubble Germany Interpreted Declassified From Across the Pond Unpacked Featured Series Irish Presidency of the EU Europe’s looming water crisis Polish Presidency of the EU A global emergency: Tackling antimicrobial resistance Living Cities POLITICO 28 Subscriptions POLITICO Pro Print Edition Research and analysis division Editions POLITICO Europe POLITICO UK POLITICO France POLITICO Germany POLITICO US Manage Privacy Settings About us Contact us Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Media Solutions Research and Analysis Division Agency IQ Press Print Edition Careers at POLITICO Ts&Cs FAQs 