EXCLUSIVE: Officials: US firm to take over some Venezuela oilfields previously run by Chinese, Russian firms | Reuters Skip to main content Exclusive news, data and analytics for financial market professionals Learn more about Refinitiv World Browse World Africa Americas Asia Pacific China Europe India Iran War Israel and Hamas at War Japan Middle East Reuters/Ipsos Polls Ukraine and Russia at War United Kingdom United States U.S. Midterm Elections Reuters NEXT Business Browse Business Aerospace & Defense Autos & Transportation Davos Energy Environment Finance Healthcare & Pharmaceuticals Media & Telecom Retail & Consumer Future of Health Future of Money Take Five World at Work Markets Browse Markets On the Money Asian Markets Carbon Markets Commodities Currencies Deals Emerging Markets ETFs European Markets Funds Econ World Global Market Data Rates & Bonds Stocks U.S. Markets Wealth Sustainability Browse Sustainability Boards, Policy & Regulation Climate & Energy Land Use & Biodiversity Society & Equity Sustainable Finance & Reporting The Switch Reuters Impact COP31 More Legal Government Legal Industry Litigation Transactional US Supreme Court Commentary Breakingviews ROI: Reuters Open Interest Technology Artificial Intelligence Cybersecurity Space Disrupted Investigations Sports World Cup Athletics Baseball Basketball Cricket Cycling Formula 1 Golf NFL NHL Soccer Tennis Science Lifestyle Culture Current City Memo Graphics Chart of the Week Pictures Wider Image Podcasts Reuters World News Reuters Morning Bid Reuters Econ World On Assignment Viewsroom The Big View Live Fact Check Video Media Center Announcements Awards Inside the Newsroom People News Sponsored Content Reuters Plus Press Releases Subscribe EXCLUSIVE Officials: US firm to take over some Venezuela oilfields previously run by Chinese, Russian firms By Steve Holland and Jarrett Renshaw August 31, 2026 10:51 PM UTC Updated ago Workers of Venezuelan state oil company PDVSA labour at an operating pumpjack in Lake Maracaibo, in Cabimas, Venezuela, January 27, 2026. REUTERS/Leonardo Fernandez Viloria/File Photo Purchase Licensing Rights , opens new tab Summary Companies NABEP previously owned by US tycoon Harry Sargeant Deal displaces Chinese, Russian interests from key oil fields Five of 14 contracts had been operated by Chinese companies WASHINGTON, Aug 31 (Reuters) - U.S. oil company North American Blue Energy Partners (NABEP) will take over ​some oilfields previously controlled by several Chinese companies and a Russian firm, two U.S. officials told Reuters on Monday. The takeover will be part ‌of a sweeping oil production agreement that President Donald Trump announced with Venezuela, they said. Sign up here. The projects were among 14 contracts newly granted to U.S.-backed North American Blue Energy Partners, according to the officials. NABEP was previously owned by U.S. oil tycoon Harry Sargeant and is now controlled by Venezuelan businessman Alejandro Betancourt. "Venezuela is blessed with an abundance of natural resources, hardworking people and untapped potential,” Betancourt ​said in a statement, confirming the deal. “This transaction will unleash that potential to the great benefit of both Venezuelans and Americans." NABEP said it will have ​operating control of the business and the U.S. government will have holding rights to a 35% stake in the company, alongside "preferential access" ⁠to 20% of the company’s production at cost. The White House said NABEP has also granted the U.S. Department of State the right of first refusal to purchase ​the remaining 80% of its production. Last week, Trump announced that the U.S. had secured access to some 64 billion barrels of Venezuela's proven oil reserves through a partnership with private ​business. The arrangement gives U.S. companies a foothold in some of Venezuela's strategically important oil assets while displacing Chinese and Russian interests that have long played a major role in the country's energy sector. It also gives Washington a direct role in determining who produces and sells Venezuela's oil, as the Trump administration seeks to reshape the country's oil industry and bring its vast reserves closer ​to U.S. economic and geopolitical interests. The U.S. will also have veto power over NABEP's board and directors and has stipulated that a majority of the board must be ​American citizens, the White House added. NABEP is expected to control a total of 17 projects in Venezuela that it plans to develop and ultimately use to supply oil to the U.S. Fourteen ‌of those ⁠projects will be newly granted by the Venezuelan government, the officials said. Five of the 14 fields have been operated by Chinese companies under a model promoted by then-President Nicolas Maduro, while one was previously operated by a Russian company, the officials said. Two of the projects have been operated by China Concord Resources, which was sanctioned by the U.S. in 2019 for Iran-related activity. Another project was operated by Sinopec and another by China National Petroleum Corp, the officials said. "Not only are we opening up new opportunities for ​the U.S. government to benefit and for ​U.S. operators to benefit, we are ⁠opening up the United States as the market for this oil which was previously being sent to China," the official said. Two other projects were operated by affiliates of Alex Saab, a former close associate of ousted Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro who is currently ​being held in U.S. custody, the officials said. Another oilfield was linked to a nephew of Maduro's wife, Cilia Flores, the ​officials said. Trump told reporters ⁠earlier on Monday that the U.S. was taking out "millions and millions of barrels of oil" that is currently being shipped to refineries in Texas and Louisiana, among other locations. He is to meet oil and gas retailers and refineries on Tuesday. The officials said talks between Venezuela's interim authorities and representatives of the 2015 National Assembly are aimed at restoring a measure ⁠of constitutional ​order and addressing legal questions surrounding the country's transition. The Trump administration views the 2015 assembly as the ​last Venezuelan legislative body elected and operating under the country's constitution, although it has no formal governing power. One official said reaching an agreement with the 2015 assembly could provide a constitutional and legal basis for ​the broader transition, including economic decisions such as the revival of Venezuela's oil industry. Reporting by Steve Holland and Jarrett Renshaw; Additonal reporting by Marianna Parraga; Editing by David Gregorio Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. , opens new tab Suggested Topics: Energy Exploration & Production Refining Venezuela Purchase Licensing Rights Read Next ago Energy category Deadly floods test Nepal's hydropower ambitions ago Energy category Trump's oil deal with Venezuela raises red flags for some major producers, sources say ago Energy category Oil up around 2% as renewed US-Iran strikes stoke supply fears ago Energy category Two tankers carrying Saudi oil attacked in Strait of Hormuz ago Energy category Solar overtakes coal as China's largest source of installed power capacity ago Energy category EXCLUSIVE Russia cuts expected 2026 oil output to 17-year low on war fallout, draft forecasts show Business RBI intervention, dollar flows push Indian rupee to two-month peak Business category · September 1, 2026 · 11:33 AM UTC · ago The Indian rupee surged to a two-month high against the U.S. dollar on Tuesday, powered by aggressive central ​bank intervention and supported by flow-related dollar offers from foreign banks. Business category Stellantis halts again Fiat 500 factory due to supply shortages 11:33 AM UTC category India's coal-fired power generation growth slows in August, renewables up 11:31 AM UTC category Pound slips despite jump in gilt yields as investors favour dollar 11:29 AM UTC Legal category UK regulator suspends Amgen's Tavneos for new patients over unreliable data 11:16 AM UTC Site Index Latest Home Authors Topic Sitemap Archive Article Sitemap Media Videos Pictures Graphics Podcasts Latest Home Authors Topic Sitemap Archive Article Sitemap Browse World Business Markets Sustainability Legal Breakingviews Technology Investigations Sports Science Lifestyle Media Videos Pictures Graphics Podcasts About Reuters About Reuters , opens new tab Media Center , opens new tab Advertise with Us , opens new tab Careers , opens new tab Reuters News Agency , opens new tab Brand Attribution Guidelines , opens new tab Reuters and AI , opens new tab Reuters Leadership , opens new tab Reuters Fact Check Reuters Diversity Report , opens new tab Commercial Disclosure (Japan) , opens new tab Stay Informed Download the App (iOS) , opens new tab Download the App (Android) , opens new tab Newsletters Subscribe Information you can trust Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers. Follow Us LSEG Products Workspace , opens new tab Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly-customised workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile. Data Catalogue , opens new tab Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market data and insights from worldwide sources and experts. World-Check , opens new tab Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks. Advertise With Us , opens new tab Advertising Guidelines Purchase Licensing Rights , opens new tab Cookies , opens new tab Terms & Conditions Privacy , opens new tab Copyright , opens new tab Digital Accessibility , opens new tab Corrections Data Disclosure and Sources , opens new tab Site Feedback , opens new tab All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a list of exchanges and delays. Cookies , opens new tab Terms & Conditions Privacy , opens new tab Copyright , opens new tab Digital Accessibility , opens new tab Corrections Data Disclosure and Sources , opens new tab Site Feedback , opens new tab © 2026 Reuters. All rights reserved