Firms including Chevron, ONGC, GE Vernova on track to sign final pacts in Venezuela, sources say | Reuters Skip to main content Exclusive news, data and analytics for financial market professionals Learn more about Refinitiv World Browse World Africa Americas Asia Pacific China Europe India Iran War Israel and Hamas at War Japan Middle East Reuters/Ipsos Polls Ukraine and Russia at War United Kingdom United States U.S. Midterm Elections Reuters NEXT Business Browse Business Aerospace & Defense Autos & Transportation Davos Energy Environment Finance Healthcare & Pharmaceuticals Media & Telecom Retail & Consumer Future of Health Future of Money Take Five World at Work Markets Browse Markets On the Money Asian Markets Carbon Markets Commodities Currencies Deals Emerging Markets ETFs European Markets Funds Econ World Global Market Data Rates & Bonds Stocks U.S. Markets Wealth Sustainability Browse Sustainability Boards, Policy & Regulation Climate & Energy Land Use & Biodiversity Society & Equity Sustainable Finance & Reporting The Switch Reuters Impact COP31 More Legal Government Legal Industry Litigation Transactional US Supreme Court Commentary Breakingviews ROI: Reuters Open Interest Technology Artificial Intelligence Cybersecurity Space Disrupted Investigations Sports World Cup Athletics Baseball Basketball Cricket Cycling Formula 1 Golf NFL NHL Soccer Tennis Science Lifestyle Culture Current City Memo Graphics Chart of the Week Pictures Wider Image Podcasts Reuters World News Reuters Morning Bid Reuters Econ World On Assignment Viewsroom The Big View Live Fact Check Video Media Center Announcements Awards Inside the Newsroom People News Sponsored Content Reuters Plus Press Releases Subscribe Firms including Chevron, ONGC, GE Vernova on track to sign final pacts in Venezuela, sources say By Marianna Parraga and Deisy Buitrago August 31, 2026 2:16 PM UTC Updated ago A Chevron logo at the Chevron building in Houston, Texas, U.S. August 19, 2025. REUTERS/Kaylee Greenlee Purchase Licensing Rights , opens new tab Summary Companies Chevron seeks to add oil field in Orinoco Belt, sources say Trump says Chevron, Exxon Mobil, will invest in Venezuela Deals are separate from massive US-Venezuela deal announced last week HOUSTON/CARACAS, Aug 31 (Reuters) - U.S. companies Chevron (CVX.N) , opens new tab and GE Vernova (GEV.N) , opens new tab , India's ONGC, Italy's Eni (ENI.MI) , opens new tab and Colombia's GeoPark (GPRK.N) , opens new tab are on track to sign ‌final agreements in Venezuela after months of negotiations to firm up energy projects in the OPEC country, five sources close to the preparations said. Most of the pacts imply completion of a six-month migration of oil contracts to an amended hydrocarbon law now giving more flexibility to foreign firms to expand and operate oilfields, ​export the barrels and cash sale proceeds, the sources said. Others set terms for new energy and electricity projects. Sign up here. The ​list of companies lining up to sign has not been finalized as executives are rushing to complete ⁠negotiations at the last minute, two of the sources said. Chevron's agreements with Venezuela are expected to be "of significant size," according to ​one of the sources. The company is trying to add a block in the vast Orinoco Belt to its portfolio, which would allow ​one of its joint projects with state-run PDVSA to expand, two sources said, and Chevron also aims to negotiate an area in Monagas North that could become a key source of diluents for its extra-heavy oil output. On Monday, U.S. President Donald Trump told reporters that U.S. energy majors Exxon ​Mobil (XOM.N) , opens new tab and Chevron were among companies committed to invest in Venezuela. He did not elaborate. A separate source said GeoPark has progressed in negotiations for ​the Bare heavy oilfield also in the Orinoco, which could give the company access to up to 1 billion barrels of reserves. Eni, which shares the ‌large ⁠Perla offshore gas project with Repsol (REP.MC) , opens new tab and has a partnership with PDVSA for the Corocoro oilfield, said it was working with its Venezuelan counterparties and any other authorities to "support the revitalization of the country's energy sector." Chevron, GE Vernova, ONGC, GeoPark, Venezuela's oil ministry and state-run energy firm PDVSA did not immediately reply to requests for comment. The agreements, which could be inked as early as this week, ​are separate from a massive Caracas-Washington pact ​announced last week for the ⁠U.S. to lock in a stake in 17 oilfields with some 64 billion barrels of proved reserves, a fifth of Venezuela's total crude reserves. The 17 fields, in the vast Orinoco Belt and Lake ​Maracaibo, are expected to produce as much as 1.5 million barrels per day (bpd) of crude ​in the long term, ⁠which would more than double Venezuela's current output of 1.25 million bpd, authorities have said. Asked when the Venezuela oil deal would lead to increased oil production, U.S. Vice President JD Vance said there was already "a significant increase in oil production out of Venezuela." "They're (oil prices) sort ⁠of much ​more stable in part because what we see coming out of Venezuela," he ​told reporters. "The 65 billion-barrel reserve is a big part of that we're already seeing." Reporting by Marianna Parraga and Sheila Dang in Houston, Deisy Buitrago in Caracas and ​Nelson Bocanegra in Bogota; additional reporting by Jacob Bogage at Joint Base Andrews. Editing by Nathan Crooks, Timothy Gardner and David Gregorio Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. , opens new tab Suggested Topics: Energy Exploration & Production Transport Fuels Venezuela Grid & Infrastructure Purchase Licensing Rights Marianna Parraga Thomson Reuters Focused on energy-related sanctions, corruption and money laundering with 20 years of experience covering Latin America's oil and gas industries. Born in Venezuela and based in Houston, she is author of the book "Oro Rojo" about Venezuela's troubled state-run company PDVSA and Mom to three boys. Deisy Buitrago Thomson Reuters Deisy reports on oil and energy and general news from Venezuela's capital, Caracas. She is also interested in reporting on politics and the environment. Deisy has been working with Reuters in Caracas since 2001, where she started writing on violent anti-government protests, the death of Venezuela’s former President Hugo Chávez, and problems at state oil company PDVSA, among other topics. She loves animals like dogs and cats! Read Next ago Energy category Deadly floods test Nepal's hydropower ambitions ago Energy category Trump's oil deal with Venezuela raises red flags for some major producers, sources say ago Energy category Oil up around 2% as renewed US-Iran strikes stoke supply fears ago Energy category Two tankers carrying Saudi oil attacked in Strait of Hormuz ago Energy category Solar overtakes coal as China's largest source of installed power capacity ago Energy category EXCLUSIVE Russia cuts expected 2026 oil output to 17-year low on war fallout, draft forecasts show Business RBI intervention, dollar flows push Indian rupee to two-month peak Business category · September 1, 2026 · 11:33 AM UTC · ago The Indian rupee surged to a two-month high against the U.S. dollar on Tuesday, powered by aggressive central ​bank intervention and supported by flow-related dollar offers from foreign banks. Business category Stellantis halts again Fiat 500 factory due to supply shortages 11:33 AM UTC category India's coal-fired power generation growth slows in August, renewables up 11:31 AM UTC category Pound slips despite jump in gilt yields as investors favour dollar 11:29 AM UTC Legal category UK regulator suspends Amgen's Tavneos for new patients over unreliable data 11:16 AM UTC Site Index Latest Home Authors Topic Sitemap Archive Article Sitemap Media Videos Pictures Graphics Podcasts Latest Home Authors Topic Sitemap Archive Article Sitemap Browse World Business Markets Sustainability Legal Breakingviews Technology Investigations Sports Science Lifestyle Media Videos Pictures Graphics Podcasts About Reuters About Reuters , opens new tab Media Center , opens new tab Advertise with Us , opens new tab Careers , opens new tab Reuters News Agency , opens new tab Brand Attribution Guidelines , opens new tab Reuters and AI , opens new tab Reuters Leadership , opens new tab Reuters Fact Check Reuters Diversity Report , opens new tab Commercial Disclosure (Japan) , opens new tab Stay Informed Download the App (iOS) , opens new tab Download the App (Android) , opens new tab Newsletters Subscribe Information you can trust Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers. Follow Us LSEG Products Workspace , opens new tab Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly-customised workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile. Data Catalogue , opens new tab Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market data and insights from worldwide sources and experts. World-Check , opens new tab Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks. Advertise With Us , opens new tab Advertising Guidelines Purchase Licensing Rights , opens new tab Cookies , opens new tab Terms & Conditions Privacy , opens new tab Copyright , opens new tab Digital Accessibility , opens new tab Corrections Data Disclosure and Sources , opens new tab Site Feedback , opens new tab All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a list of exchanges and delays. Cookies , opens new tab Terms & Conditions Privacy , opens new tab Copyright , opens new tab Digital Accessibility , opens new tab Corrections Data Disclosure and Sources , opens new tab Site Feedback , opens new tab © 2026 Reuters. All rights reserved