US military orders alcohol ban, monthlong curfew amid Okinawa homicide investigation | Stars and Stripes

CAMP FOSTER, Okinawa — The U.S. military will halt normal operations and ban alcohol on Okinawa for 48 hours, then impose a monthlong overnight curfew following the arrest of a Marine on suspicion of killing a Japanese woman at a Naha hotel.
The “Period of Training” for all U.S. military personnel on the island begins at noon Wednesday and ends at noon Friday, Lt. Gen. Benjamin Watson, III Marine Expeditionary Force commander, announced late Tuesday.
Alcohol consumption will be prohibited on and off U.S. military installations during the 48-hour period, according to a memorandum III MEF emailed to Stars and Stripes before posting to social media.
The restrictions were announced three days after Okinawa police arrested Lance Cpl. Devin Jacob Ballard, 20, on suspicion of killing and robbing Anna Yagi, 39, of Naha, early Saturday at a hotel in the city’s Wakasa district.
Yagi died of asphyxiation after Ballard allegedly “pressed on her neck,” police said Monday. His case was forwarded that day to the Naha Public Prosecutors Office.
Ballard has denied the allegations, according to police.
Ballard, a combat engineer assigned to Marine Wing Support Squadron 172, Marine Aircraft Group 36, 1st Marine Aircraft Wing, is being held by Japanese authorities.
His arrest has drawn protests from senior Japanese and Okinawan officials and renewed calls for tighter discipline among U.S. military personnel.
During the 48-hour pause, service members will participate in “discussions on liberty policy, enforcement mechanisms, alcohol awareness, Okinawan culture, and alliance responsibilities,” Watson wrote.
Off-base liberty is also suspended during the pause.
Beginning at noon Friday, all U.S. military personnel on Okinawa will enter a 30-day “Period of Reflection.”
Service members will be subject to a midnight-to-5 a.m. curfew and must remain on a military installation in their assigned quarters or at their off-base residences during those hours, according to the memo.
The military also will institute “enhanced supervision at the gates across all installations on Okinawa” during the 30-day period.
Military leaders will use that time to “conduct a more deliberate review of our liberty policies and procedures” and make recommendations to the Okinawa Area Coordinating Committee, Watson wrote.
“Liberty is a mission, and like any other mission it requires discipline, trust and teamwork to complete it successfully,” he wrote. “Live up to the high standards that come with the uniform you wear.”
III MEF did not immediately respond to phone and email inquiries after hours Tuesday.
Tuesday marked the first time the Marine Corps identified Ballard by name and provided details of his military service.
He enlisted on Aug. 8, 2024, and completed recruit training at Parris Island, S.C., according to a copy of his service record provided Tuesday by III MEF spokesman 1st Lt. Tyler Thomas.
Ballard then attended the School of Infantry-East at Camp Geiger, N.C., and the Marine Corps Engineer School at Camp Lejeune before being assigned to Okinawa.
He was promoted to lance corporal on Oct. 1, 2025. His awards include the Sea Service Deployment Ribbon, a Letter of Appreciation and a Meritorious Mast.
Ballard’s current duty status is listed as “confined foreign civilian authority/IHFA,” an abbreviation for “in hands of foreign authorities,” according to his service record.