Okinawa governor confronts US military over Marine suspected of weekend homicide | Stars and Stripes

NAHA, Okinawa — Okinawa Gov. Genta Koja called Monday for revisions to the agreement governing U.S. military personnel in Japan after a Marine was arrested on suspicion of killing a local woman at a Naha hotel.
Koja and Naha Mayor Satoru Chinen delivered the demand during a meeting with Marine Lt. Gen. Benjamin Watson, commander of III Marine Expeditionary Force, and U.S. Consul General Andrew Ou at the prefectural office.
Lance Cpl. Devin Jacob Ballard, 20, assigned to Marine Corps Air Station Futenma, is suspected of killing Anna Yagi, 39, of Naha, early Saturday at a hotel in the city’s Wakasa district, according to Okinawa Prefectural Police.
Yagi died of asphyxiation after Ballard allegedly “pressed on her neck,” a police spokesman told Stars and Stripes at police headquarters Monday. He declined to provide further details.
The case was forwarded to the Naha Public Prosecutors Office on Monday, he said.
Ballard is denying the allegations, according to police.
Some Japanese government officials must speak to the media on condition of anonymity.
Koja and Chinen handed Watson and Ou a formal protest letter calling for a review of the U.S.-Japan status of forces agreement, stricter discipline among U.S. military personnel and measures to prevent similar incidents.
They delivered the same letter earlier Monday to Masahiko Kiya, the Foreign Ministry’s ambassador in charge of Okinawa, and Masaru Murai, director of the Okinawa Defense Bureau, an arm of the Defense Ministry.
Koja read the letter aloud during the meeting with Watson and Ou, which was open to the media.
“The fact that such an atrocious crime has again taken place leads us to conclude that U.S. military efforts regarding discipline and human rights education are completely ineffective,” he said.
The protest cited two previous killings involving U.S. military personnel on Okinawa.
Former Marine Kenneth Franklin Gadson was arrested in 2016 and later convicted of killing Okinawa resident Rina Shimabukuro. In 2019, Navy Petty Officer 3rd Class Gabriel Olivero killed a Japanese woman and then himself, according to police.
Watson told Koja and Chinen that the Marine Corps would continue cooperating with the investigation and noted that Okinawa is home to service members who live and work in the community.
“Any serious incidents that cause anxiety and concerns for the people of Okinawa cause us concern,” he told reporters afterward. “We are committed to being good neighbors, and we are committed to earning the trust of the Okinawan people.”
Koja’s protest followed high-level responses from the Japanese government after Ballard’s arrest on Sunday.
Prime Minister Sanae Takaichi called the incident “extremely brutal and heinous” in a post on X that day and said the government had “strongly” protested to the United States and demanded measures to prevent similar incidents.
Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi summoned U.S. Ambassador George Glass to his Tokyo office Sunday, according to the Foreign Ministry.
Defense Minister Shinjiro Koizumi separately summoned the commander of U.S. Forces Japan, Air Force Lt. Gen. Stephen Jost, Koizumi told reporters that day.
Jost “pledged full cooperation with the Japanese authorities to achieve a just outcome” during the meeting, USFJ spokesman Air Force Col. John Severns told Stars and Stripes by email Monday.
Severns said he had nothing to announce regarding changes to USFJ’s liberty policy, which was revised in October 2024 to prohibit off-base drinking between 1 a.m. and 5 a.m.
Following Gadson’s arrest in 2016, the U.S. military imposed a monthlong midnight curfew and an off-base alcohol ban on U.S. military-connected personnel on Okinawa.