Trump slams Missouri Supreme Court over blocked congressional maps

Trump: Missouri Supreme Court ‘ridiculously ruled in favor’ of blocking redistricting plan
President Trump on Thursday condemned the Missouri Supreme Court’s decision to block new congressional lines drawn to benefit Republicans from being used in the state’s November election.
The state’s highest court unanimously ruled Thursday evening that the map, which was used in the state’s primary elections last month, “did not go into effect and will not go into effect” unless it is approved by voters in a citizen-led referendum on the ballot this fall.
The president called the ruling a “Dark Day for ‘Justice’ in Missouri” in a Truth Social post.
“The Missouri Supreme Court just ridiculously ruled in favor of changing the maps back to what they were a long time ago. It’s called, Ancient History!” Trump wrote.
“The problem is, according to Legal Scholars, that not only was the ruling horrible, ridiculous, and unConstitutional, but there won’t be enough time to change the map back with the Election coming up in a very short period of time,” he continued. “The Election Process, as usual, is being disturbed in America!”
The president and his administration have urged Republican-controlled states to debut new congressional maps ahead of this year’s midterms as part of their efforts to hold on to control of Congress.
Democrats have responded in kind, waging a nationwide redistricting battle aimed at reclaiming the House this November.
Republicans already control six of Missouri’s eight House seats, and the new map could have paved the way for them to pick up an additional seat this fall.
The state’s Republican attorney general, Catherine Hanaway, vowed to appeal the ruling to the U.S. Supreme Court in a statement on Thursday evening.
“Our office will move immediately to seek relief from SCOTUS,” she wrote on social media. “We are confident that the federal courts will not allow every Missouri voter to be disenfranchised—which is what today’s decision does.”
Meanwhile, the state’s Democratic Party celebrated the high court’s decision as a “VICTORY TO THE PEOPLE!” in a statement shared on social media.
“The Missouri Supreme Court just unanimously ruled to reverse the gerrymandered, anti-democracy maps until THE PEOPLE have a chance to vote,” the party’s statement said. “This is only possible because of the work done by our neighbors to gather signatures and fight back!”
Copyright 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.