US added 162,000 jobs in August: Labor Department Skip to content Toggle Menu Read The Paper Subscribe Account Profile Manage Newsletters Log Out Newsletters Morning Report 12:30 Report Evening Report Business Defense Healthcare Energy & Environment Technology Whole Hog Politics The Gavel The Movement Toggle Menu NEWS Senate House Administration Courts Media Campaign News 2026 Midterm Elections Education In The Know DC News State Watch Print Edition People in the News POLICY Defense Healthcare Energy & Environment Sports & Gaming Technology Transportation International Cybersecurity National Security Space BUSINESS Budget Taxes Personal Finance Lobbying HEALTH OPINION Columnists Congress Blog All Contributors Opinions – Campaign Opinions – Civil Rights Opinions – Criminal Justice Opinions – Cybersecurity Opinions – Education Opinions – Energy and Environment Opinions – Finance Opinions – Healthcare Opinions – Immigration Opinions – International Opinions – Judiciary Opinions – National Security Opinions – Technology Opinions – White House Submit Opinion Content EVENTS Upcoming Events About VIDEOS HILL INSIDER Subscribe Account Profile Manage Newsletters Log Out Newsletters NEWS POLICY BUSINESS HEALTH OPINION EVENTS VIDEOS HILL INSIDER Live: Clancy trial Trending: Fed interest rate John Fetterman Maria Bartiromo Sponsored: Content from Association for Consumer Debt Relief Just In US economy adds 162,000 jobs in August Business & Economy | 6 minutes ago Trump offers first comments on Lindsay Clancy case Administration | 13 minutes ago What to know about latest Missouri redistricting ruling State Watch | 17 minutes ago Federal judge raises ‘meritless re-prosecution’ in Lincoln Memorial reflecting pool hearing Court Battles | 19 minutes ago Lancaster County, PA infant confirmed to have died from measles Healthcare | 25 minutes ago Trump says data center opponents face ‘poverty, crime and squalor’ Technology | 34 minutes ago Live updates: August’s strong jobs numbers put rate cut in doubt; Trump signs beef deal Administration | 1 hour ago Supreme Court sides with GOP in fight over TV ad rates; Jackson dissents Court Battles | 1 hour ago View all Load more Business US added 162,000 jobs in August, blowing past expectations Comments: by Julia Shapero and Max Rego - 09/04/26 8:45 AM ET Comments: Link copied by Julia Shapero and Max Rego - 09/04/26 8:45 AM ET Comments: Link copied NOW PLAYING The U.S. economy added 162,000 jobs in August, according to new data released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). The unemployment rate remained unchanged at 4.1 percent. Economists had expected U.S. employers to add 53,000 jobs last month and the jobless rate to hold steady at 4.1 percent, according to The Wall Street Journal. The August jobs data marked a sharp reversal from July, which initially showed the economy losing 23,000 jobs. However, the BLS revised jobs data from the past two months to show employers added 31,000 and 21,000 jobs in June and July, respectively. Friday’s numbers “may corroborate that recent softness was temporary rather than indicative of a broader deterioration,” Jerry Tempelman, vice president of economic and fixed income research at Mutual of America Capital Management, said in a statement. The uptick last month was driven by an increase in employment at food services and drinking places, which rose by 59,000 jobs, and local government education, which added 42,000 jobs, “largely offsetting a decrease in the prior month,” BLS noted. Federal Reserve Chair Kevin Warsh touted the job market last week, noting unemployment claims — on a four-week average — are “near their lowest level” in decades. “In my view, the relatively low turnover in today’s labor market is partly a result of the significant rematching between employers and employees that happened at scale in the postpandemic environment,” Warsh said at the central bank’s annual symposium in Wyoming. “When labor supply is barely growing, monthly job gains are naturally going to run low,” he added. Economists have pointed to lower net migration rates as a cause of stagnant labor data, as the Trump administration has carried out a widespread deportation campaign. The labor force participation rate has also declined by 0.5 percentage points from January, although it ticked up to 61.6 percent in August, the BLS reported Friday. “August’s solid job growth is even more notable since the government cancelled Temporary Protected Status for Haitian refugees on July 27, forcing workers who used that status to qualify for authorization to leave the work force,” Bill Adams, chief U.S. economist for Fifth Third Commercial Bank, said in a statement. With the better-than-expected job numbers, this will focus the Fed “squarely on controlling inflation when they meet next in September,” Adams added. Federal Reserve board member Christopher Waller said Thursday he anticipated stable unemployment numbers relative to July, noting August inflation data will “heavily” influence his vote on interest rates at the next Federal Open Market Committee meeting in less than two weeks. As of Thursday afternoon, markets saw about a 50 percent chance the central bank maintains rates at their current level and a 50 percent chance it votes for a quarter-point hike, according to CME’s FedWatch tool. By Friday morning, this shifted to about a 60 percent chance of a hike. “If there is continued progress toward our 2 percent goal, then I am willing to support holding the policy rate at its current level,” Waller said at a Reuters NEXT event. “But if inflation comes in hot, I would consider a rate hike.” Inflation has remained stubbornly above the central bank’s target rate of 2 percent. The Fed’s preferred measure of inflation, the personal consumption expenditures price index, stayed flat at an annual rate of 3.7 percent in July. This coincides with the U.S. gross domestic product (GDP) increasing at an annual rate of just 1.5 percent in the second quarter, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA). Real GDP grew by 2.1 percent in the first quarter, the BEA reported, after rising by less than a percentage point in the final quarter of 2025 and increasing by 4.4 percent in quarter three of last year. For Fed officials, the labor market “has been one reason they weren’t raising rates more quickly to fight inflation,” noted Chris Zaccarelli, chief investment officer for Northlight Asset Management. “Although it’s not a given that the Fed will raise rates on September 16th, especially given the optics of a national election less than 2 months after the meeting, there are plenty of reasons to raise interest rates (to fight inflation) and less reasons to keep rates unchanged (to support the labor market),” he added in a statement. Updated at 9:35 a.m. EDT. Add as preferred source on Google Tags bls Christopher Waller Donald Trump Jobs Report Kevin Warsh Labor Department U.S. economy Copyright 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Comments: Link copied More Business News See All Administration Trump reveals Brazil, Argentina involved in controversial beef deal by Mallory Wilson 1 hour ago Administration / 1 hour ago Business Publix, Walmart, other grocers under investigation over beef prices by Nathaniel Rodriguez 2 hours ago Business / 2 hours ago Healthcare Epinephrine injection recalled over potentially fatal health risks by Zach Kaplan 3 hours ago Healthcare / 3 hours ago Business Trump threatens trade war if rates aren’t cut after strong jobs report by Julia Shapero 5 hours ago Business / 5 hours ago See All Video/Hill.TV See all Hill.TV See all Video THE HILL TV Rising: September 4, 2026 by TheHill.com 09/04/26 12:27 PM ET THE HILL TV / 5 hours ago THE HILL TV Rising: September 3, 2026 by TheHill.com 1 day ago THE HILL TV / 1 day ago THE HILL TV Rising: September 2, 2026 by TheHill.com 2 days ago THE HILL TV / 2 days ago See all Hill.TV See all Video Top Stories See All State Watch What to know about latest Missouri redistricting ruling by Caroline Vakil 18 minutes ago State Watch / 18 minutes ago See All FOR HILL INSIDERS Vance, El-Sayed resist calls to disavow controversial friends Whole Hog Politics - Live Briefing 09/04/26 Whole Hog Politics: The sprawling political transformation of Texas Whole Hog Politics 09/04/26 Maxwell Frost sees greater Gen Z influence on Congress as an improvement House 09/04/26 Democrats weigh how big to go on healthcare reform in midterm push Healthcare 09/04/26 Read More Most Popular Trump reveals Brazil, Argentina involved in controversial beef deal Supreme Court hands Trump another win — a monkey wrench into voting by mail Federal judge raises ‘meritless re-prosecution’ in Lincoln Memorial ... NC elections officials alter mail ballot rules just before they’re mailed out Fetterman stood up disabled veterans; scoffed at children’s hospital’s ... Former Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin arrested on film set Trump offers first comments on Lindsay Clancy case Trump threatens trade war if rates aren’t cut after strong jobs report What to know about latest Missouri redistricting ruling Hegseth headed for clash with GOP senators as frustrations grow Trump: Fans ‘will not be happy’ Bartiromo out at Fox News Pennsylvania Democrat blasts Fetterman as ‘lazy trust fund baby’ Supreme Court sides with GOP in fight over TV ad rates; Jackson dissents Driscoll breaks silence after resigning as Army secretary The 50 percent problem with Trump’s Canada tariffs ICE officer charged with lying about shooting turns himself in Ty Cobb on midterms: Trump intends ‘to steal these elections where possible’ Live updates: August’s strong jobs numbers put rate cut in doubt; Trump signs ... Load more DON'T MISS A BRIEF. SIGN UP FOR OUR DAILY EMAIL. News Senate House Campaign 2026 Midterm Elections Regulation Media In The Know More Policy Defense Energy & Environment Healthcare Technology International Transportation Cybersecurity National Security More Video News Video Clips Political News Clips The Hill on Youtube The Hill - Rising Whole Hog Politics More Opinion Contributors to The Hill Columnists Congress Blog More Resources Sitemap The Hill Apps People RSS Print Edition Other Areas Media Contributors Submit Opinion Content About Us Work For The Hill Internships Contact Support Follow Us On Get the App Get the Android app from Google Play Get the iOS app from App Store PRIVACY POLICY 09/30/2025 TERMS & CONDITIONS CONTACT ADVERTISE WITH THE HILL NewsNation BestReviews Advertise with Nexstar Journalistic Integrity Your Privacy Choices Cancel My Account THE HILL 400 N CAPITOL STREET NW, SUITE 650 WASHINGTON DC 20002 © 1998 - 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. | All Rights Reserved. ✕ Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Sign In or create a new account. Enter your email and we’ll send a secure one-click link to sign in. Please enter a valid email address Forgot password? Change email By clicking on any of the sign up options below, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use, which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. By clicking on any of the sign up options below, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use, which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. Continue or No Thanks The Hill is provided by Nexstar Media Inc., and uses the My Nexstar sign-in, which works across our media network. Learn more at nexstar.tv/privacy-policy. Nexstar Media Inc. is a leading, diversified media company that produces and distributes engaging local and national news, sports, and entertainment content across its television and digital platforms. The My Nexstar sign-in works across the Nexstar network—including The CW, NewsNation, The Hill, and more. Learn more at nexstar.tv/privacy-policy. Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Check your email inbox We’ve sent an email containing a verification link which expires in 10 minutes. Try another email Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Thanks for registering! Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Are you sure you want to log out? Log out of all Nexstar properties Log out Cancel Enter your email to receive instructions to reset your password Sign in faster via a magic link sent to your inbox. Reset Password Email Me a Magic Link Email Sent! Check your inbox for instructions to access your account. If you don't see it, check your spam folder. Reset your password Enter a new password below to change your password Password requirements: At least 12 characters RESET PASSWORD Password updated Your password has been reset. Please log in with your new password. Log in INSIDER ← Return to home Go deeper with the source Washington trusts Monthly Yearly Insider Premium $9 .99/ month Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A No display or video ads on TheHill.com* SUBSCRIBE Sign Up Insider Basic $5 .99/ month Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A SUBSCRIBE Sign Up BEST VALUE Insider Premium $99 .99 / yr $89 .99 yr 1 Renews at $99.99 / year thereafter Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A No display or video ads on TheHill.com* TRY FREE FOR 14 DAYS Sign Up Insider Basic $59 .99 / yr $54 .99 yr 1 Renews at $59.99/year thereafter Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A TRY FREE FOR 14 DAYS Sign Up *Advertising restrictions will not apply to The Hill apps, free newsletters, podcasts, or sponsored content. By signing up for a subscription, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use, which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. Already a subscriber? Sign In