US economy adds 162,000 jobs in August Skip to content Toggle Menu Read The Paper Subscribe Account Profile Manage Newsletters Log Out Newsletters Morning Report 12:30 Report Evening Report Business Defense Healthcare Energy & Environment Technology Whole Hog Politics The Gavel The Movement Toggle Menu NEWS Senate House Administration Courts Media Campaign News 2026 Midterm Elections Education In The Know DC News State Watch Print Edition People in the News POLICY Defense Healthcare Energy & Environment Sports & Gaming Technology Transportation International Cybersecurity National Security Space BUSINESS Budget Taxes Personal Finance Lobbying HEALTH OPINION Columnists Congress Blog All Contributors Opinions – Campaign Opinions – Civil Rights Opinions – Criminal Justice Opinions – Cybersecurity Opinions – Education Opinions – Energy and Environment Opinions – Finance Opinions – Healthcare Opinions – Immigration Opinions – International Opinions – Judiciary Opinions – National Security Opinions – Technology Opinions – White House Submit Opinion Content EVENTS Upcoming Events About VIDEOS HILL INSIDER Subscribe Account Profile Manage Newsletters Log Out Newsletters NEWS POLICY BUSINESS HEALTH OPINION EVENTS VIDEOS HILL INSIDER Live: Clancy trial Trending: Fed interest rate John Fetterman Maria Bartiromo Sponsored: Content from Association for Consumer Debt Relief Just In Paul Ryan: Current state of politics ‘fundamentally unserious’ House | 17 minutes ago US economy adds 162,000 jobs in August Business & Economy | 1 hour ago Trump offers first comments on Lindsay Clancy case Administration | 1 hour ago What to know about latest Missouri redistricting ruling State Watch | 1 hour ago Federal judge raises ‘meritless re-prosecution’ in Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool hearing Court Battles | 1 hour ago Lancaster County infant confirmed to have died from measles in Pennsylvania Healthcare | 1 hour ago Trump says data center opponents face ‘poverty, crime and squalor’ Technology | 1 hour ago Live updates: August’s strong jobs numbers put rate cut in doubt; Trump signs beef deal Administration | 2 hours ago View all Load more Business & Economy US economy adds 162,000 jobs in August Comments: by Julia Shapero - 09/04/26 5:00 PM ET Comments: Link copied by Julia Shapero - 09/04/26 5:00 PM ET Comments: Link copied NOW PLAYING Welcome to The Hill’s Business & Economy newsletter {beacon} Business & Economy Business & Economy The Big Story August jobs report beats expectations The U.S. economy added 162,000 jobs in August, soaring past expectations and raising the prospect that the Federal Reserve could hike interest rates next month. AP Photo/Nam Y. Huh The unemployment rate remained unchanged at 4.1 percent, according to the data released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). Economists had expected U.S. employers to add 53,000 jobs last month and the jobless rate to hold steady at 4.1 percent, according to The Wall Street Journal. The August jobs data marked a sharp reversal from July, which initially showed the economy losing 23,000 jobs. However, the BLS revised jobs data from the past two months to show employers added 31,000 and 21,000 jobs in June and July, respectively. Friday’s numbers “may corroborate that recent softness was temporary rather than indicative of a broader deterioration,” Jerry Tempelman, vice president of economic and fixed income research at Mutual of America Capital Management, said in a statement. The better-than-expected jobs report allows the Fed to focus “squarely on controlling inflation when they meet next in September,” Bill Adams, chief U.S. economist for Fifth Third Commercial Bank, said in a statement. This is raising the prospect that the Fed could raise rates at its meeting next month. As of Thursday afternoon, markets saw about a 50 percent chance the central bank maintains rates at their current level and a 50 percent chance it votes for a quarter-point hike, according to CME’s FedWatch tool. By Friday morning, this shifted to about a 60 percent chance of a hike. Check out a full report at TheHill.com. Welcome to The Hill’s Business & Economy newsletter, I’m Julia Shapero — bringing you the latest on the intersection of Wall Street and Pennsylvania Avenue. Programming note: The Business & Economy newsletter will be off Monday for the holiday. We’ll be back in your inboxes on Tuesday. Did someone forward you this newsletter? Subscribe here. Essential Reads Key business and economic news with implications this week and beyond: Trump reveals Brazil, Argentina involved in controversial beef deal President Trump said Friday that tariff-free imported beef will be coming from Brazil and Argentina, among other places, as his administration works to alleviate stubbornly high prices. Full Story Trump threatens trade war if rates aren’t cut after strong jobs report President Trump called on the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates Friday after the August jobs report came in stronger than expected, threatening to cut off trade with several countries if the central bank doesn’t budge. Full Story Publix, Walmart, other grocers under investigation over beef prices The Department of Justice (DOJ) is expanding its investigation into beef affordability in the U.S. to include eight of the largest grocers in the country. Full Story Epinephrine injection recalled over potentially fatal health risks A pharmaceutical company is voluntarily recalling three lots of epinephrine injections, USP 30 mg/30 mL, over sterility concerns and the potential presence of particulate matter. Full Story In Other News Branch out with more stories from the day: Diesel prices hit record high The average price of diesel hit an all-time high Friday in the U.S., as the conflict with Iran puts more strain on the global energy supply. Full Story Good to Know Business and economic news we’ve flagged from other outlets: Wall Street ends lower as solid jobs data fuels hawkish Fed bets (Reuters) World’s biggest sovereign wealth fund plans to cut U.S. Treasury holdings (CNBC) What Others are Reading Top stories on The Hill right now: Supreme Court hands Trump another win — a monkey wrench into voting by mail Justice Elena Kagan, an avowed institutionalist, has said it is a “bad rap” that the Supreme Court is in the tank for President Trump. She may have been thinking of the tariff and birthright citizenship cases, in which majorities ruled against his policy … Read more NC elections officials alter mail ballot rules just before they’re mailed out The North Carolina State Board of Elections approved new guidelines Friday regarding mail-in ballots, hours before those same ballots were sent to voters. Read more What People Think Opinions related to business and economic issues submitted to The Hill: The 50 percent problem with Trump’s Canada tariffs Half of Americans are economically insecure. What are we going to do about it? You’re all caught up. Check out The Hill’s Business page for the latest coverage. Like this newsletter? Take a moment to view our other topical products here 📩 Privacy Policy | Manage Subscriptions | Unsubscribe 400 N Capitol Street NW Suite 650, Washington, DC 20001 Copyright © 1998 – 2025 Nexstar Media Inc. | All Rights Reserved. If you believe this has been sent to you in error, please safely unsubscribe. Close Thank you for signing up! Subscribe to more newsletters here The latest in politics and policy. Direct to your inbox. Sign up for the Business and Economy newsletter Subscribe Add as preferred source on Google Tags Copyright 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Comments: Link copied More Business & Economy News See All Business & Economy Trade deficit ticks up by Julia Shapero 1 day ago Business & Economy / 1 day ago Business & Economy Bessent rallies support for Trump agenda at G20 by Julia Shapero 2 days ago Business & Economy / 2 days ago Business & Economy Bond sell-off soars amid inflation, debt fears by Julia Shapero 3 days ago Business & Economy / 3 days ago Business & Economy All eyes on Warsh in Wyoming by Julia Shapero 1 week ago Business & Economy / 1 week ago See All Video/Hill.TV See all Hill.TV See all Video THE HILL TV Rising: September 4, 2026 by TheHill.com 09/04/26 12:27 PM ET THE HILL TV / 6 hours ago THE HILL TV Rising: September 3, 2026 by TheHill.com 1 day ago THE HILL TV / 1 day ago THE HILL TV Rising: September 2, 2026 by TheHill.com 2 days ago THE HILL TV / 2 days ago See all Hill.TV See all Video Top Stories See All State Watch What to know about latest Missouri redistricting ruling by Caroline Vakil 1 hour ago State Watch / 1 hour ago See All FOR HILL INSIDERS Vance, El-Sayed resist calls to disavow controversial friends Whole Hog Politics - Live Briefing 09/04/26 Whole Hog Politics: The sprawling political transformation of Texas Whole Hog Politics 09/04/26 Maxwell Frost sees greater Gen Z influence on Congress as an improvement House 09/04/26 Democrats weigh how big to go on healthcare reform in midterm push Healthcare 09/04/26 Read More Most Popular Trump reveals Brazil, Argentina involved in controversial beef deal Supreme Court hands Trump another win — a monkey wrench into voting by mail Federal judge raises ‘meritless re-prosecution’ in Lincoln Memorial ... NC elections officials alter mail ballot rules just before they’re mailed out Fetterman stood up disabled veterans; scoffed at children’s hospital’s ... Trump offers first comments on Lindsay Clancy case Former Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin arrested on film set What to know about latest Missouri redistricting ruling Trump threatens trade war if rates aren’t cut after strong jobs report Pennsylvania Democrat blasts Fetterman as ‘lazy trust fund baby’ Hegseth headed for clash with GOP senators as frustrations grow The 50 percent problem with Trump’s Canada tariffs Supreme Court sides with GOP in fight over TV ad rates; Jackson dissents Trump: Fans ‘will not be happy’ Bartiromo out at Fox News Virginia Democrat says DOJ wiretapped phone calls with state Senate leader Contempt of Congress yields mixed results 4 House Democrats heading to Dallas for RNC counterprogramming Driscoll breaks silence after resigning as Army secretary Load more DON'T MISS A BRIEF. SIGN UP FOR OUR DAILY EMAIL. News Senate House Campaign 2026 Midterm Elections Regulation Media In The Know More Policy Defense Energy & Environment Healthcare Technology International Transportation Cybersecurity National Security More Video News Video Clips Political News Clips The Hill on Youtube The Hill - Rising Whole Hog Politics More Opinion Contributors to The Hill Columnists Congress Blog More Resources Sitemap The Hill Apps People RSS Print Edition Other Areas Media Contributors Submit Opinion Content About Us Work For The Hill Internships Contact Support Follow Us On Get the App Get the Android app from Google Play Get the iOS app from App Store PRIVACY POLICY 09/30/2025 TERMS & CONDITIONS CONTACT ADVERTISE WITH THE HILL NewsNation BestReviews Advertise with Nexstar Journalistic Integrity Your Privacy Choices Cancel My Account THE HILL 400 N CAPITOL STREET NW, SUITE 650 WASHINGTON DC 20002 © 1998 - 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. | All Rights Reserved. ✕ Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Sign In or create a new account. Enter your email and we’ll send a secure one-click link to sign in. Please enter a valid email address Forgot password? Change email By clicking on any of the sign up options below, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use, which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. By clicking on any of the sign up options below, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use, which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. Continue or No Thanks The Hill is provided by Nexstar Media Inc., and uses the My Nexstar sign-in, which works across our media network. Learn more at nexstar.tv/privacy-policy. Nexstar Media Inc. is a leading, diversified media company that produces and distributes engaging local and national news, sports, and entertainment content across its television and digital platforms. The My Nexstar sign-in works across the Nexstar network—including The CW, NewsNation, The Hill, and more. Learn more at nexstar.tv/privacy-policy. Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Check your email inbox We’ve sent an email containing a verification link which expires in 10 minutes. Try another email Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Thanks for registering! Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Are you sure you want to log out? Log out of all Nexstar properties Log out Cancel Enter your email to receive instructions to reset your password Sign in faster via a magic link sent to your inbox. Reset Password Email Me a Magic Link Email Sent! Check your inbox for instructions to access your account. If you don't see it, check your spam folder. Reset your password Enter a new password below to change your password Password requirements: At least 12 characters RESET PASSWORD Password updated Your password has been reset. Please log in with your new password. Log in INSIDER ← Return to home Go deeper with the source Washington trusts Monthly Yearly Insider Premium $9 .99/ month Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A No display or video ads on TheHill.com* SUBSCRIBE Sign Up Insider Basic $5 .99/ month Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A SUBSCRIBE Sign Up BEST VALUE Insider Premium $99 .99 / yr $89 .99 yr 1 Renews at $99.99 / year thereafter Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A No display or video ads on TheHill.com* TRY FREE FOR 14 DAYS Sign Up Insider Basic $59 .99 / yr $54 .99 yr 1 Renews at $59.99/year thereafter Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A TRY FREE FOR 14 DAYS Sign Up *Advertising restrictions will not apply to The Hill apps, free newsletters, podcasts, or sponsored content. By signing up for a subscription, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use, which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. Already a subscriber? Sign In