Trump posts map claiming most of North America and Caribbean islands

President Trump posted a map with an American flag covering most of North America, as well as Iceland and islands in the Caribbean, on Monday morning, a post that follows his previous pushes to take over territory outside of U.S. borders.
The president’s post featured a map with the pattern of the American flag superimposed over the U.S., Canada, Mexico and part of Central America, as well as Greenland, Iceland and islands in the Caribbean such as Cuba and Jamaica.
Trump has previously pushed to take over Canada and Greenland, as well as the Panama Canal, but the inclusion of countries like Mexico and some of the Caribbean islands in his territorial ambitions is new.
The post also comes amid U.S. tensions with Canada over trade, with Washington and Ottawa slapping tariffs on each other’s goods in the last month. Amid the trade troubles between the U.S. and its northern neighbor, Trump signed an executive order to rename Lake Ontario, which shares a name with a Canadian province, to “Lake America.”
On Sunday, Trump posted a map of New Mexico labeled “New America” after a debunked online hoax spread that he had signed an executive order changing the state’s name.
The map, which the president posted to Truth Social, featured a large “X” over “Mexico” in the state’s name and the word “America” below it. The White House’s official account also posted the image on the social platform X.
Enter your email and we’ll send a secure one-click link to sign in.
Please enter a valid email address
Forgot password?
Change email
By clicking on any of the sign up options below, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use, which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information.
By clicking on any of the sign up options below, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use, which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information.
Continue
or
No Thanks
Provided by Nexstar Media Inc.
Check your email inbox
We’ve sent an email containing a verification link which expires in 10 minutes.
Try another email
Provided by Nexstar Media Inc.
Thanks for registering!
Provided by Nexstar Media Inc.
Are you sure you want to log out?
Log out of all Nexstar properties
Log outCancel
Enter your email to receive instructions to reset your password
Sign in faster via a magic link sent to your inbox.
Reset PasswordEmail Me a Magic Link
Email Sent!
Check your inbox for instructions to access your account. If you don't see it, check your spam folder.
Reset your password
Enter a new password below to change your password
Password requirements:
At least 12 characters
RESET PASSWORD
Password updated
Your password has been reset. Please log in with your new password.
*Advertising restrictions will not apply to The Hill apps, free newsletters, podcasts, or sponsored content.
By signing up for a subscription, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use, which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information.