Trump threatens trade war if Federal Reserve rates aren't cut after strong jobs report Skip to content Toggle Menu Read The Paper Subscribe Account Profile Manage Newsletters Log Out Newsletters Morning Report 12:30 Report Evening Report Business Defense Healthcare Energy & Environment Technology Whole Hog Politics The Gavel The Movement Toggle Menu NEWS Senate House Administration Courts Media Campaign News 2026 Midterm Elections Education In The Know DC News State Watch Print Edition People in the News POLICY Defense Healthcare Energy & Environment Sports & Gaming Technology Transportation International Cybersecurity National Security Space BUSINESS Budget Taxes Personal Finance Lobbying HEALTH OPINION Columnists Congress Blog All Contributors Opinions – Campaign Opinions – Civil Rights Opinions – Criminal Justice Opinions – Cybersecurity Opinions – Education Opinions – Energy and Environment Opinions – Finance Opinions – Healthcare Opinions – Immigration Opinions – International Opinions – Judiciary Opinions – National Security Opinions – Technology Opinions – White House Submit Opinion Content EVENTS Upcoming Events About VIDEOS HILL INSIDER Subscribe Account Profile Manage Newsletters Log Out Newsletters NEWS POLICY BUSINESS HEALTH OPINION EVENTS VIDEOS HILL INSIDER Live: Clancy trial Trending: Fed interest rate John Fetterman Maria Bartiromo Sponsored: Content from Association for Consumer Debt Relief Just In US economy adds 162,000 jobs in August Business & Economy | 40 minutes ago Trump offers first comments on Lindsay Clancy case Administration | 46 minutes ago What to know about latest Missouri redistricting ruling State Watch | 50 minutes ago Federal judge raises ‘meritless re-prosecution’ in Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool hearing Court Battles | 52 minutes ago Lancaster County infant confirmed to have died from measles in Pennsylvania Healthcare | 58 minutes ago Trump says data center opponents face ‘poverty, crime and squalor’ Technology | 1 hour ago Live updates: August’s strong jobs numbers put rate cut in doubt; Trump signs beef deal Administration | 1 hour ago Supreme Court sides with GOP in fight over TV ad rates; Jackson dissents Court Battles | 1 hour ago View all Load more Business Trump threatens trade war if rates aren’t cut after strong jobs report Comments: by Julia Shapero - 09/04/26 12:04 PM ET Comments: Link copied by Julia Shapero - 09/04/26 12:04 PM ET Comments: Link copied NOW PLAYING President Trump called on the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates Friday after the August jobs report came in stronger than expected, threatening to cut off trade with several countries if the central bank doesn’t budge. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reported Friday that U.S. employers added 162,000 jobs last month, well above the 53,000 that economists were anticipating. Trump touted the “great” jobs numbers Friday before quickly turning his attention to the Fed, which he has long pushed to slash rates. “Lower the interest rates because the U.S.A. is a much stronger credit than it was just a short time ago!” he wrote in a post on Truth Social. “A STRONG COUNTRY MEANS A LOWER INTEREST RATE – IT’S A BETTER CREDIT.” “Without the United States agreeing to allow them their big surpluses, and we could stop that immediately, they would no longer be considered financially ELITE!” he added. “LOWER THE RATE OR I’LL STOP TRADING WITH COUNTRIES WITH WHICH WE HAVE A DEFICIT.” The Fed has held rates steady at a range of 3.5 to 3.75 percent at its last five meetings, as inflation has remained persistently above the central bank’s target rate of 2 percent. Annual inflation sat at 3.7 percent year over year in July, according to the personal consumption expenditures price index, the Fed’s preferred measure of inflation. However, Friday’s job numbers appear to increase the chances that the central bank raises rather than lowers rates. The latest data alleviates concerns that higher rates are weakening the labor market and allows the Fed to turn its attention to curtailing inflation. Traders are now pricing in a 60 percent chance that the Fed hikes rates by a quarter point at its next meeting this month, according to CME FedWatch, which tracks bets placed on future central bank decisions. Trump touted Fed Chair Kevin Warsh as a “great new leader” Friday even as he ramped up pressure on his pick to run the central bank. The president frequently feuded with Warsh’s predecessor, Jerome Powell, over rate cuts, threatening to fire him on several occasions. “The Fed Board, with its great new leader, must get smart – BE PATRIOTS for a change,” Trump said. “High interest rates put the U.S.A. at a very unfair disadvantage, and I won’t allow that to happen!” Add as preferred source on Google Tags Bureau of Labor Statistics Donald Trump federal reserve Interest rates Jerome Powell Jobs Report Kevin Warsh Kevin Warsh President Trump Truth social Copyright 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Comments: Link copied More Business News See All Administration Trump reveals Brazil, Argentina involved in controversial beef deal by Mallory Wilson 2 hours ago Administration / 2 hours ago Business Publix, Walmart, other grocers under investigation over beef prices by Nathaniel Rodriguez 3 hours ago Business / 3 hours ago Healthcare Epinephrine injection recalled over potentially fatal health risks by Zach Kaplan 4 hours ago Healthcare / 4 hours ago Business Diesel prices hit record high by Sarah Davis 8 hours ago Business / 8 hours ago See All Video/Hill.TV See all Hill.TV See all Video THE HILL TV Rising: September 4, 2026 by TheHill.com 09/04/26 12:27 PM ET THE HILL TV / 5 hours ago THE HILL TV Rising: September 3, 2026 by TheHill.com 1 day ago THE HILL TV / 1 day ago THE HILL TV Rising: September 2, 2026 by TheHill.com 2 days ago THE HILL TV / 2 days ago See all Hill.TV See all Video Top Stories See All State Watch What to know about latest Missouri redistricting ruling by Caroline Vakil 51 minutes ago State Watch / 51 minutes ago See All FOR HILL INSIDERS Vance, El-Sayed resist calls to disavow controversial friends Whole Hog Politics - Live Briefing 09/04/26 Whole Hog Politics: The sprawling political transformation of Texas Whole Hog Politics 09/04/26 Maxwell Frost sees greater Gen Z influence on Congress as an improvement House 09/04/26 Democrats weigh how big to go on healthcare reform in midterm push Healthcare 09/04/26 Read More Most Popular Trump reveals Brazil, Argentina involved in controversial beef deal Supreme Court hands Trump another win — a monkey wrench into voting by mail Federal judge raises ‘meritless re-prosecution’ in Lincoln Memorial ... NC elections officials alter mail ballot rules just before they’re mailed out Trump offers first comments on Lindsay Clancy case Fetterman stood up disabled veterans; scoffed at children’s hospital’s ... Former Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin arrested on film set What to know about latest Missouri redistricting ruling Pennsylvania Democrat blasts Fetterman as ‘lazy trust fund baby’ Trump: Fans ‘will not be happy’ Bartiromo out at Fox News Trump threatens trade war if rates aren’t cut after strong jobs report Driscoll breaks silence after resigning as Army secretary Hegseth headed for clash with GOP senators as frustrations grow The 50 percent problem with Trump’s Canada tariffs ICE officer charged with lying about shooting turns himself in Pentagon sought to divert NIH funds for defense use, top House Appropriations ... White House puts Trump-style classic video games on website ahead of midterms Virginia Democrat says DOJ wiretapped phone calls with state Senate leader Load more DON'T MISS A BRIEF. SIGN UP FOR OUR DAILY EMAIL. News Senate House Campaign 2026 Midterm Elections Regulation Media In The Know More Policy Defense Energy & Environment Healthcare Technology International Transportation Cybersecurity National Security More Video News Video Clips Political News Clips The Hill on Youtube The Hill - Rising Whole Hog Politics More Opinion Contributors to The Hill Columnists Congress Blog More Resources Sitemap The Hill Apps People RSS Print Edition Other Areas Media Contributors Submit Opinion Content About Us Work For The Hill Internships Contact Support Follow Us On Get the App Get the Android app from Google Play Get the iOS app from App Store PRIVACY POLICY 09/30/2025 TERMS & CONDITIONS CONTACT ADVERTISE WITH THE HILL NewsNation BestReviews Advertise with Nexstar Journalistic Integrity Your Privacy Choices Cancel My Account THE HILL 400 N CAPITOL STREET NW, SUITE 650 WASHINGTON DC 20002 © 1998 - 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. | All Rights Reserved. ✕ Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Sign In or create a new account. Enter your email and we’ll send a secure one-click link to sign in. Please enter a valid email address Forgot password? Change email By clicking on any of the sign up options below, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use, which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. By clicking on any of the sign up options below, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use, which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. Continue or No Thanks The Hill is provided by Nexstar Media Inc., and uses the My Nexstar sign-in, which works across our media network. Learn more at nexstar.tv/privacy-policy. Nexstar Media Inc. is a leading, diversified media company that produces and distributes engaging local and national news, sports, and entertainment content across its television and digital platforms. The My Nexstar sign-in works across the Nexstar network—including The CW, NewsNation, The Hill, and more. Learn more at nexstar.tv/privacy-policy. Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Check your email inbox We’ve sent an email containing a verification link which expires in 10 minutes. Try another email Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Thanks for registering! Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Are you sure you want to log out? Log out of all Nexstar properties Log out Cancel Enter your email to receive instructions to reset your password Sign in faster via a magic link sent to your inbox. Reset Password Email Me a Magic Link Email Sent! Check your inbox for instructions to access your account. If you don't see it, check your spam folder. Reset your password Enter a new password below to change your password Password requirements: At least 12 characters RESET PASSWORD Password updated Your password has been reset. Please log in with your new password. Log in INSIDER ← Return to home Go deeper with the source Washington trusts Monthly Yearly Insider Premium $9 .99/ month Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A No display or video ads on TheHill.com* SUBSCRIBE Sign Up Insider Basic $5 .99/ month Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A SUBSCRIBE Sign Up BEST VALUE Insider Premium $99 .99 / yr $89 .99 yr 1 Renews at $99.99 / year thereafter Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A No display or video ads on TheHill.com* TRY FREE FOR 14 DAYS Sign Up Insider Basic $59 .99 / yr $54 .99 yr 1 Renews at $59.99/year thereafter Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A TRY FREE FOR 14 DAYS Sign Up *Advertising restrictions will not apply to The Hill apps, free newsletters, podcasts, or sponsored content. By signing up for a subscription, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use, which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. Already a subscriber? Sign In