Trump signs stopgap bill to avoid shutdown Skip to content Toggle Menu Read The Paper Subscribe Account Profile Manage Newsletters Log Out Newsletters Morning Report 12:30 Report Evening Report Business Defense Healthcare Energy & Environment Technology Whole Hog Politics The Gavel The Movement Toggle Menu NEWS Senate House Administration Courts Media Campaign News 2026 Midterm Elections Education In The Know DC News State Watch Print Edition People in the News POLICY Defense Healthcare Energy & Environment Sports & Gaming Technology Transportation International Cybersecurity National Security Space BUSINESS Budget Taxes Personal Finance Lobbying HEALTH OPINION Columnists Congress Blog All Contributors Opinions – Campaign Opinions – Civil Rights Opinions – Criminal Justice Opinions – Cybersecurity Opinions – Education Opinions – Energy and Environment Opinions – Finance Opinions – Healthcare Opinions – Immigration Opinions – International Opinions – Judiciary Opinions – National Security Opinions – Technology Opinions – White House Submit Opinion Content EVENTS Upcoming Events About VIDEOS HILL INSIDER Subscribe Account Profile Manage Newsletters Log Out Newsletters NEWS POLICY BUSINESS HEALTH OPINION EVENTS VIDEOS HILL INSIDER Live: Vance press briefing Trending: Hegseth GOP Hakeem Jeffries Iowa races Sponsored: Content from Association for Consumer Debt Relief Just In Opinion 911 professionals aren’t considered first responders — Congress should change that Opinions - Healthcare | 2 minutes ago Recalls, warning issued for popular squishy kids’ toys over ‘serious injury’ risk News | 4 minutes ago Single Americans want their romantic partners to make 6 figures: Study Business | 11 minutes ago Billionaire Leon Black challenges House subpoena for Epstein testimony House | 20 minutes ago Watch live: Jeffries speaks after 2 Democrats buck party on GOP rule vote House | 21 minutes ago Trump: 'I don't wear a wig' Administration | 23 minutes ago Lutnick ‘misspoke’ when he said no US soldiers have died in Iran war Administration | 23 minutes ago Opinion Trump’s campaign funding colossus is the midterms’ biggest unknown Opinions - White House | 32 minutes ago View all Load more Administration Trump signs stopgap funding bill into law, temporarily avoiding shutdown Comments: by Max Rego - 09/02/26 10:36 PM ET Comments: Link copied by Max Rego - 09/02/26 10:36 PM ET Comments: Link copied NOW PLAYING President Trump on Wednesday signed a stopgap government funding bill into law, affirming Congress’s efforts to temporarily avert a shutdown until at least Dec. 11. By signing the Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2027 into law, Trump ensured federal agencies will be funded through November’s midterms into December. The measure passed the Senate and House with overwhelming majorities of 90-6 and 370-48, respectively, as lawmakers moved weeks ahead of the Sept. 30 funding deadline. With the government funded through Dec. 11, Congress faces another holiday season appropriations battle, two years after lawmakers waited until the eleventh hour to finance federal agencies days before Christmas. Last fall, the government shut down for a record 43 days as Democratic lawmakers sought an extension of since-expired Affordable Care Act premium subsidies. From February until May, for 76 days, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) went without appropriated funds. The pause began as Democrats pushed for reforms to the Trump administration’s immigration enforcement tactics in response to the deaths of Renee Good and Alex Pretti — whom federal officers fatally shot during operations in Minneapolis. Both shutdowns resulted in widespread travel issues. Air traffic controllers and Transportation Security Administration (TSA) officers went without pay during the fall 2025 stalemate, and TSA officers again missed out on paychecks during the DHS funding lapse. Speaker Mike Johnson (R-La.) did not get his entire conference to back the funding bill, portending the potential for future difficulties in preventing a shutdown. Nineteen House Republicans voted against funding the government over their objections to Senate-added provisions, including a short-term delay of a ban on intoxicating hemp products. But House Appropriations Committee Chair Tom Cole (R-Okla.), who voted for the bill, argued avoiding a shutdown before the midterms took precedence. “When we passed our continuing resolution over here, we knew it would change when it got to the Senate,” Cole said on the floor just before the House passed the bill Tuesday. “Some of those changes I actually agree with, some of them I don’t.” The Oklahoma Republican continued, “But they don’t really change the substance of the fact we bought the time that we need to get through the election cycle and hopefully the time that we need to get down to serious bargaining on the other side of it.” Rep. Ted Lieu (Calif.), the No. 4 House Democrat, backed the measure along with the lion’s share of his caucus. But noting the government was funded through the end of this month, he said Congress should have instead used the time to work on a longer-term package. “We have a whole nother month left, and the Republicans who control the House, the Senate and the White House are basically waving the white flag of surrender and saying, ‘We don’t know how to govern, we don’t know how to pass appropriations bills,’” the California lawmaker told reporters Tuesday. “It is not a good way to run our federal government. But it’s the only alternative that’s going to be before us, so I’ll be voting for it,” Lieu added. Add as preferred source on Google Tags Donald Trump Mike Johnson Ted Lieu Tom Cole Copyright 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Comments: Link copied More Administration News See All House Billionaire Leon Black challenges House subpoena for Epstein testimony by Zach Schonfeld 20 minutes ago House / 20 minutes ago Administration Trump: 'I don't wear a wig' by Mira Bhakta 23 minutes ago Administration / 23 minutes ago Administration Lutnick ‘misspoke’ when he said no US soldiers have died in Iran war by Mallory Wilson 23 minutes ago Administration / 23 minutes ago Defense Bacon echoes Tillis: Hegseth ‘would not be on my team’ by Tara Suter 1 hour ago Defense / 1 hour ago See All Video/Hill.TV See all Hill.TV See all Video THE HILL TV Rising: September 2, 2026 by TheHill.com 09/02/26 1:44 PM ET THE HILL TV / 21 hours ago THE HILL TV Rising: September 1, 2026 by TheHill.com 1 day ago THE HILL TV / 2 days ago THE HILL TV Rising: August 31, 2026 by TheHill.com 2 days ago THE HILL TV / 3 days ago See all Hill.TV See all Video Top Stories See All Defense Hegseth headed for clash with GOP senators as frustrations grow by Alexander Bolton 5 hours ago Defense / 5 hours ago See All FOR HILL INSIDERS On the Ballot: The provocateur both parties can’t stop talking about On The Ballot 09/03/26 Some Republicans are planning to skip Trump’s GOP convention Campaign 09/03/26 CDC, Pennsylvania’s growing feud over measles: 4 things to know Healthcare 09/03/26 Trump, AI industry go on offensive to counter data center backlash Technology 09/03/26 Read More Most Popular Hegseth headed for clash with GOP senators as frustrations grow Jeffries faces tricky balancing act on Democratic defectors Driscoll breaks silence after resigning as Army secretary Clooney rips Hegseth’s post knocking Canadian military: ‘What’s wrong ... Lutnick claims that data centers, known for water consumption, ‘don’t use ... Sand holds edge over Lahn in Iowa governor’s race while Hinson leads Turek ... Fox News host says Trump made her husband Transportation secretary ‘because ... Live updates: Vance to helm White House’s first press briefing in ... Bacon echoes Tillis: Hegseth ‘would not be on my team’ Map shows where the 2026 ‘super’ El Niño could bring lots of rain, extreme ... Former Air Force secretary: Hegseth’s Pentagon ‘dysfunctional’ Trump signs stopgap funding bill into law, temporarily avoiding shutdown Kennedy Center removing landmark sculpture from grounds How much can we believe the polls? Democrats block proposed constitutional amendment to keep Supreme Court ... Hegseth removes 6 Army officers from promotion list Trump: 'I don't wear a wig' Federal judge blocks Trump’s new birthright citizenship order Load more DON'T MISS A BRIEF. SIGN UP FOR OUR DAILY EMAIL. News Senate House Campaign 2026 Midterm Elections Regulation Media In The Know More Policy Defense Energy & Environment Healthcare Technology International Transportation Cybersecurity National Security More Video News Video Clips Political News Clips The Hill on Youtube The Hill - Rising Whole Hog Politics More Opinion Contributors to The Hill Columnists Congress Blog More Resources Sitemap The Hill Apps People RSS Print Edition Other Areas Media Contributors Submit Opinion Content About Us Work For The Hill Internships Contact Support Follow Us On Get the App Get the Android app from Google Play Get the iOS app from App Store PRIVACY POLICY 09/30/2025 TERMS & CONDITIONS CONTACT ADVERTISE WITH THE HILL NewsNation BestReviews Advertise with Nexstar Journalistic Integrity Your Privacy Choices Cancel My Account THE HILL 400 N CAPITOL STREET NW, SUITE 650 WASHINGTON DC 20002 © 1998 - 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. | All Rights Reserved. ✕ Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Sign In or create a new account. Enter your email and we’ll send a secure one-click link to sign in. Please enter a valid email address Forgot password? Change email By clicking on any of the sign up options below, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use, which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. By clicking on any of the sign up options below, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use, which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. Continue or No Thanks The Hill is provided by Nexstar Media Inc., and uses the My Nexstar sign-in, which works across our media network. Learn more at nexstar.tv/privacy-policy. Nexstar Media Inc. is a leading, diversified media company that produces and distributes engaging local and national news, sports, and entertainment content across its television and digital platforms. The My Nexstar sign-in works across the Nexstar network—including The CW, NewsNation, The Hill, and more. Learn more at nexstar.tv/privacy-policy. Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Check your email inbox We’ve sent an email containing a verification link which expires in 10 minutes. Try another email Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Thanks for registering! Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Are you sure you want to log out? Log out of all Nexstar properties Log out Cancel Enter your email to receive instructions to reset your password Sign in faster via a magic link sent to your inbox. Reset Password Email Me a Magic Link Email Sent! Check your inbox for instructions to access your account. If you don't see it, check your spam folder. Reset your password Enter a new password below to change your password Password requirements: At least 10 characters At least one number At least one special character At least one uppercase letter At least one lowercase letter RESET PASSWORD Password updated Your password has been reset. Please log in with your new password. Log in INSIDER ← Return to home Go deeper with the source Washington trusts Monthly Yearly Insider Premium $9 .99/ month Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A No display or video ads on TheHill.com* SUBSCRIBE Sign Up Insider Basic $5 .99/ month Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A SUBSCRIBE Sign Up BEST VALUE Insider Premium $99 .99 / yr $89 .99 yr 1 Renews at $99.99 / year thereafter Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A No display or video ads on TheHill.com* TRY FREE FOR 14 DAYS Sign Up Insider Basic $59 .99 / yr $54 .99 yr 1 Renews at $59.99/year thereafter Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A TRY FREE FOR 14 DAYS Sign Up *Advertising restrictions will not apply to The Hill apps, free newsletters, podcasts, or sponsored content. By signing up for a subscription, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use, which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. Already a subscriber? Sign In