House passes short-term funding bill to avoid government shutdown before midterms Skip to content Toggle Menu Read The Paper Subscribe Account Profile Manage Newsletters Log Out Newsletters Morning Report 12:30 Report Evening Report Business Defense Healthcare Energy & Environment Technology Whole Hog Politics The Gavel The Movement Toggle Menu NEWS Senate House Administration Courts Media Campaign News 2026 Midterm Elections Education In The Know DC News State Watch Print Edition People in the News POLICY Defense Healthcare Energy & Environment Sports & Gaming Technology Transportation International Cybersecurity National Security Space BUSINESS Budget Taxes Personal Finance Lobbying HEALTH OPINION Columnists Congress Blog All Contributors Opinions – Campaign Opinions – Civil Rights Opinions – Criminal Justice Opinions – Cybersecurity Opinions – Education Opinions – Energy and Environment Opinions – Finance Opinions – Healthcare Opinions – Immigration Opinions – International Opinions – Judiciary Opinions – National Security Opinions – Technology Opinions – White House Submit Opinion Content EVENTS Upcoming Events About VIDEOS HILL INSIDER Subscribe Account Profile Manage Newsletters Log Out Newsletters NEWS POLICY BUSINESS HEALTH OPINION EVENTS VIDEOS HILL INSIDER Live: Trump gasoline prices Trending: Government funding Trump approval US-Iran Sponsored: Content from Association for Consumer Debt Relief Just In Haitian-born student in Ohio appears to take his own life after losing immigration status State Watch | 4 minutes ago Zelensky warns airlines Russia’s sky ‘completely unsafe’ International | 8 minutes ago Milo Yiannopoulos ‘very ashamed’ of support for Trump after deportation Media | 13 minutes ago Live results: Massachusetts holds House primary contests Campaign | 23 minutes ago Live results: Republicans jockey to take on Healey for Massachusetts governor’s mansion Campaign | 23 minutes ago Live results: Moulton vies to unseat Markey in Massachusetts Senate primary Senate | 23 minutes ago Carney suggests US officials stop ‘doing memes,’ ‘throwing shade,’ ‘trying to be tough’ International | 35 minutes ago Florida orders removal of Flock cameras from state highways State Watch | 40 minutes ago View all Load more House Congress funds government until December, averting preelection shutdown Comments: by Helen Huiskes - 09/01/26 2:06 PM ET Comments: Link copied by Helen Huiskes - 09/01/26 2:06 PM ET Comments: Link copied NOW PLAYING The House on Tuesday voted to send a short-term extension of government funding to President Trump’s desk, avoiding a politically risky shutdown before the midterm elections. The continuing resolution (CR), which funds the government through Dec. 11, passed the House on a 370-48 vote, with 19 Republicans and 29 Democrats voting in opposition. The Senate advanced the measure by a landslide last month . The CR now pushes the spending battle to before the holidays, when the outcome of the midterms will help determine how much leverage each party holds to set the spending agenda. It’s rare for Congress to pass a CR this early in the year, almost a month before funding expires on Sept. 30 — even as political polarization has made finding bipartisan consensus on funding increasingly difficult and CRs necessary to keep the government open. But the early timeline and the broad bipartisan support the CR received are clear signals that both parties were anxious to avoid a fall funding fight with the congressional majority hanging in the balance. Congress has contended with two record-breaking shutdowns in the past year alone. The Senate version of the CR was adopted by a margin of 90-6, and several of the Democratic senators who voted “no” did so as a signal, as they knew the bill would succeed without them. Still, the funding stopgap didn’t get universal support in the House, and it could cause problems for Speaker Mike Johnson (R-La.). Some hard-line Republicans voted against the CR — and voted against a rule for four unrelated bills — because of objections to provisions the Senate had added, including a short-term delay of a ban on intoxicating hemp products. The White House and the cannabis industry want to delay a congressionally enacted ban for a month to negotiate a different deal, but many Republicans want the ban to kick in as planned. Some are also not thrilled with a provision that temporarily blocks a rule that would reshape how the Trump administration disperses federal grants by giving more power to political appointees in distributing federal funds. House Appropriations Committee Chair Tom Cole (R-Okla.) said avoiding a shutdown was worth the complaints. “When we passed our continuing resolution over here, we knew it would change when it got to the Senate,” Cole said on the floor just before the vote. “Some of those changes I actually agree with, some of them I don’t. But they don’t really change the substance of the fact we bought the time that we need to get through the election cycle and hopefully the time that we need to get down to serious bargaining on the other side of it.” Democrats have generally not been inclined to back government funding resolutions during Trump’s second term. But the grantmaking provision added by the Senate, coupled with a desire to prevent a funding lapse, brought many Democrats on board. On Tuesday morning, House Democrats huddled behind closed doors in the Capitol basement for their first all-caucus, in-person meeting since the House left Washington in July for the long summer break. Rep. Rosa DeLauro (Conn.), the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, made the case for supporting the funding package. “That’s a big statement from the ranking member. She’s my ranking member, so I have a tough time disagreeing with her,” quipped Rep. Pete Aguilar (Calif.), the chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the Appropriations panel. Others jumped on board, even as some of them bashed the process of funding the government on a temporary basis. Rep. Ted Lieu (Calif.), the vice chair of the House Democratic Caucus, noted the shutdown deadline is not until Oct. 1 and argued that Congress should work to come up with a longer-term package. “We have a whole nother month left, and the Republicans who control the House, the Senate and the White House are basically waving the white flag of surrender and saying, ‘We don’t know how to govern, we don’t know how to pass appropriations bills,’” Lieu told reporters in the Capitol. “It is not a good way to run our federal government. But it’s the only alternative that’s going to be before us, so I’ll be voting for it.” Each party will aim to reshape government funding along its priorities in the fight for full-year bills after the midterms are decided. Another CR moving the deadline into the new year is likely, especially if Democrats retake one or both chambers. Democrats, if they win back power, will likely seek to downsize defense spending; boost domestic programs for infrastructure, education, childcare and other priorities; and rein in the Trump administration’s powers, including cuts to executive agency staffing and federal spending in general. Republicans might try to move full-year appropriations bills. But they’ll need Democratic support to do so, and the two parties are still far apart on spending totals. House Republicans have passed just three full-year funding bills so far, while Senate negotiators have yet to reach a deal on a top-line spending number. Democrats will have even less motivation to cooperate with Republicans in the short term if they are expecting to retake the majority next year. Mike Lillis contributed. Add as preferred source on Google Tags Pete Aguilar Rosa DeLauro Tom Cole Copyright 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Comments: Link copied More House News See All Campaign Live results: Massachusetts holds House primary contests by The Hill Staff 24 minutes ago Campaign / 24 minutes ago House Democratic leaders blindsided by two members who bailed out Johnson by Mike Lillis 2 hours ago House / 2 hours ago House Two Democrats, in highly unusual move, cross the aisle to save GOP bills by Helen Huiskes and Mike Lillis 3 hours ago House / 3 hours ago House Hakeem Jeffries calls Laura Loomer a ‘stone-cold racist,’ demands Republicans denounce her by Tara Suter 4 hours ago House / 4 hours ago See All Video/Hill.TV See all Hill.TV See all Video THE HILL TV Rising: September 1, 2026 by TheHill.com 09/01/26 2:02 PM ET THE HILL TV / 3 hours ago THE HILL TV Rising: August 31, 2026 by TheHill.com 1 day ago THE HILL TV / 1 day ago THE HILL TV Rising: August 28, 2026 by TheHill.com 4 days ago THE HILL TV / 4 days ago See all Hill.TV See all Video Top Stories See All House Democratic leaders blindsided by two members who bailed out Johnson by Mike Lillis 2 hours ago House / 2 hours ago See All FOR HILL INSIDERS Tim Cook hands over reins of Apple, but remains Trump whisperer Technology 09/01/26 Is the party that is seen as normal going to win? The Fight for 2028 09/01/26 The Movement: Meta settlement gets praise, pushback from the right The Movement 09/01/26 Democratic incumbents in Massachusetts hope to defy primary push for generational change Campaign 09/01/26 Most Popular Democratic leaders blindsided by two members who bailed out Johnson Haberman: ‘No polling’ where Trump is popular Two Democrats, in highly unusual move, cross the aisle to save GOP bills GOP senator ‘disappointed’ over departure of Army secretary who clashed ... Congress funds government until December, averting preelection shutdown Army Secretary Dan Driscoll steps down — with a warning Chief justice dissents on ballroom construction: ‘No victory for separation ... White House to host first press briefing in over 40 days Massie names Epstein ‘coconspirators,’ discusses new Epstein files ... Ocasio-Cortez: ‘Put a data center up in Mar-a-Lago’ These 30 occupations could see the fastest job decline in the next ... GOP hard-liners threaten rebellion over stopgap funding bill Milo Yiannopoulos ‘very ashamed’ of support for Trump after deportation Duffy thanks Zeldin for getting rid of ‘stop-start’ feature in cars: ‘I ... Bessent predicts Strait of Hormuz will be ‘worthless’ in 2 years Greg Bovino was under investigation when he retired, records show Trump creates new headache for GOP with call for FCC to crack down on ... Trump approval stuck at lowest level of political career: Survey Load more DON'T MISS A BRIEF. SIGN UP FOR OUR DAILY EMAIL. News Senate House Campaign 2026 Midterm Elections Regulation Media In The Know More Policy Defense Energy & Environment Healthcare Technology International Transportation Cybersecurity National Security More Video News Video Clips Political News Clips The Hill on Youtube The Hill - Rising Whole Hog Politics More Opinion Contributors to The Hill Columnists Congress Blog More Resources Sitemap The Hill Apps People RSS Print Edition Other Areas Media Contributors Submit Opinion Content About Us Work For The Hill Internships Contact Support Follow Us On Get the App Get the Android app from Google Play Get the iOS app from App Store PRIVACY POLICY 09/30/2025 TERMS & CONDITIONS CONTACT ADVERTISE WITH THE HILL NewsNation BestReviews Advertise with Nexstar Journalistic Integrity Your Privacy Choices Cancel My Account THE HILL 400 N CAPITOL STREET NW, SUITE 650 WASHINGTON DC 20002 © 1998 - 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. | All Rights Reserved. ✕ Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Sign In or create a new account. Enter your email and we’ll send a secure one-click link to sign in. Please enter a valid email address Forgot password? Change email By clicking on any of the sign up options below, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use , which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. By clicking on any of the sign up options below, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use , which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. Continue or No Thanks The Hill is provided by Nexstar Media Inc., and uses the My Nexstar sign-in, which works across our media network. Learn more at nexstar.tv/privacy-policy. Nexstar Media Inc. is a leading, diversified media company that produces and distributes engaging local and national news, sports, and entertainment content across its television and digital platforms. The My Nexstar sign-in works across the Nexstar network—including The CW, NewsNation, The Hill, and more. Learn more at nexstar.tv/privacy-policy. Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Check your email inbox We’ve sent an email containing a verification link which expires in 10 minutes. Try another email Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Thanks for registering! Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Are you sure you want to log out? Log out of all Nexstar properties Log out Cancel Enter your email to receive instructions to reset your password Sign in faster via a magic link sent to your inbox. Reset Password Email Me a Magic Link Email Sent! Check your inbox for instructions to access your account. If you don't see it, check your spam folder. Reset your password Enter a new password below to change your password Password requirements: At least 10 characters At least one number At least one special character At least one uppercase letter At least one lowercase letter RESET PASSWORD Password updated Your password has been reset. Please log in with your new password. Log in INSIDER ← Return to home Go deeper with the source Washington trusts Monthly Yearly Insider Premium $9 .99/ month Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A No display or video ads on TheHill.com* SUBSCRIBE Sign Up Insider Basic $5 .99/ month Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A SUBSCRIBE Sign Up BEST VALUE Insider Premium $99 .99 / yr $89 .99 yr 1 Renews at $99.99 / year thereafter Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A No display or video ads on TheHill.com* TRY FREE FOR 14 DAYS Sign Up Insider Basic $59 .99 / yr $54 .99 yr 1 Renews at $59.99/year thereafter Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A TRY FREE FOR 14 DAYS Sign Up *Advertising restrictions will not apply to The Hill apps, free newsletters, podcasts, or sponsored content. By signing up for a subscription, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use , which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. Already a subscriber? Sign In