Trump admin unveils new details on Venezuela oil deal Skip to content Toggle Menu Read The Paper Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Manage Newsletters Log Out Newsletters Morning Report 12:30 Report Evening Report Business Defense Healthcare Energy & Environment Technology Whole Hog Politics The Gavel The Movement Toggle Menu NEWS Senate House Administration Courts Media Campaign News 2026 Midterm Elections Education In The Know DC News State Watch Print Edition People in the News POLICY Defense Healthcare Energy & Environment Sports & Gaming Technology Transportation International Cybersecurity National Security Space BUSINESS Budget Taxes Personal Finance Lobbying HEALTH OPINION Columnists Congress Blog All Contributors Opinions – Campaign Opinions – Civil Rights Opinions – Criminal Justice Opinions – Cybersecurity Opinions – Education Opinions – Energy and Environment Opinions – Finance Opinions – Healthcare Opinions – Immigration Opinions – International Opinions – Judiciary Opinions – National Security Opinions – Technology Opinions – White House Submit Opinion Content EVENTS Upcoming Events About VIDEOS HILL INSIDER Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Manage Newsletters Log Out Newsletters NEWS POLICY BUSINESS HEALTH OPINION EVENTS VIDEOS HILL INSIDER Live: Trump gasoline prices Trending: Government funding Trump approval US-Iran Sponsored: Content from Association for Consumer Debt Relief Just In Tim Cook hands over reins of Apple, but remains Trump whisperer For Insiders Technology | 2 minutes ago For Insiders Lancaster coroner investigating child measles death amid Trump admin scrutiny State Watch | 6 minutes ago Democratic leaders blindsided by two members who bailed out Johnson House | 8 minutes ago Two Democrats, in highly unusual move, cross the aisle to save GOP bills House | 37 minutes ago MapQuest tops Apple, Google Maps in downloads after refusing Trump’s ‘Lake America’ change Administration | 46 minutes ago White House to host first press briefing in over 40 days Administration | 50 minutes ago No negotiations with Canada right now: US trade rep Business | 1 hour ago GOP senator ‘disappointed’ over departure of Army secretary who clashed with Hegseth Senate | 1 hour ago View all Load more Energy & Environment Trump administration unveils additional details in Venezuela oil deal Comments: by Rachel Frazin - 09/01/26 9:59 AM ET Comments: Link copied by Rachel Frazin - 09/01/26 9:59 AM ET Comments: Link copied Vice President Vance once again taking aim at Michigan Video Player is loading. Play Video Pause Skip Backward Skip Forward Unmute Current Time 0:07 / Duration 1:25 Loaded : 56.03% 0:07 Stream Type LIVE Seek to live, currently behind live LIVE 1x Playback Rate Chapters Chapters Descriptions descriptions off , selected Captions captions settings , opens captions settings dialog captions off Subtitles (en) , selected CC1 Captions Audio Track default , selected Quality 360p 720p 1080p Auto , selected Fullscreen Share This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. Text Color White Black Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Opacity Opaque Semi-Transparent Text Background Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Opacity Opaque Semi-Transparent Transparent Caption Area Background Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Opacity Transparent Semi-Transparent Opaque Font Size 50% 75% 100% 125% 150% 175% 200% 300% 400% Text Edge Style None Raised Depressed Uniform Drop shadow Font Family Proportional Sans-Serif Monospace Sans-Serif Proportional Serif Monospace Serif Casual Script Small Caps Reset Done Close Modal Dialog End of dialog window. Advertisement White House Headlines - September 1, 2026 Today's Top Stories - September 1, 2026 White House Headlines - September 1, 2026 Trending on The Hill - September 1, 2026 WRIC: Rural Health Funding DC Bureau: Trump Ballroom Advances as Iran War Drags DC Bureau: Data Centers Debate Vance calls El-Sayed 'very, very evil' Trump announces Medicaid drug pricing deals with 9 firms DOT to suspend driving schools associated with failed English proficiency tests 'We're going to hit them hard': Trump vows retaliation to Iranian strikes (WEB) WDCW: trump arch backed by NPS White House Headlines - September 1, 2026 NOW PLAYING White House Headlines - September 1, 2026 The Trump administration unveiled additional details Monday evening about its new oil deal with Venezuela. The administration said in a press release that the Pentagon’s Office of Strategic Capital will take a 35 percent equity stake in North American Blue Energy Partners, a private company that is Venezuela’s second-largest private oil producer. It added that the firm, which will now be partly owned by the U.S. government, was given a 100-year concession for Venezuelan oil fields that are estimated to contain about 65 billion barrels of oil — about 21 percent of Venezuela’s total estimated oil. The administration also said that the U.S. will get the right to purchase 20 percent of the oil that North American Blue Energy Partners unearths at the cost of production. It said that this oil can be used to fill the U.S.’s Strategic Petroleum Reserve, which both the Trump and Biden administrations have pulled from in recent years to mitigate the fuel price impacts of the war in Iran and Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. The State Department will also be given the first right of refusal to purchase the other 80 percent of the oil the company produces. The administration said that “millions of barrels” produced in Venezuela will be processed by U.S. refineries, but it did not specify a number or percentage. The new information comes as the initial details released by the administration were vague , saying the U.S. would work with a private operator but not naming the company. The Wall Street Journal reported that North American Blue Energy Partners is led by Alejandro Betancourt, who has faced investigations of alleged money laundering, though no charges have been filed. The Washington Post reported that the U.S. intervened in a Swiss criminal case against Betancourt, lobbying to avoid criminal charges and end travel restrictions against the businessman, who was based in the U.K. After the U.S. incursion into Venezuela at the start of the year, President Trump frequently said he wanted access to the country’s oil . Laura Kelly contributed. Add as preferred source on Google Tags Alejandro Betancourt Iran North American Blue Energy Partners Pentagon's Office of Strategic Capital russia state department strategic petroleum reserve Trump administration U.S. government Venezuela Venezuela Venezuela oil venezuelan oil Copyright 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Comments: Link copied SPONSORED CONTENT Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Stage 3 Kidney Disease Doesn’t Have to End in Dialysis — Here’s the Upstream Support... The Metabolic Review | Sponsored Sponsored Read More Undo Halloween Lovers Are Obsessed With This 3D Rug Dayliy | Sponsored Sponsored Shop Now Undo The Worst Zip Codes for Car Insurance in Georgia (Is Yours on the List?) OTTO Insurance | Sponsored Sponsored Click Here Undo Seniors Above 55 Years Of Age Can Now Fly Business Class For The Price of Economy Smart Travel Tips | Sponsored Sponsored Learn More Undo Japan's Oldest Doctors Say Memory Loss Isn't Age: Just Avoid Drinking These 3 Beverages Matrix Ads 101 | Sponsored Sponsored Undo A Mayo Oncologist: Most Adults Over 50 Don't Need 12 Supplements Health Review | Sponsored Sponsored Undo Amazon Prime Membership Decline: Why Shoppers Canceling Prime For This? Online Shopping Tools | Sponsored Sponsored Learn More Undo Who Charges The Least For Car Insurance In Georgia? (Check Zip Codes) Many Georgia Drivers Had No Idea They Could Do This Auto Insurance | Sponsored Sponsored Learn more Undo Georgia: Worst Car Insurance Companies for Overcharging (Is Yours On The List?) Auto Insurance | Sponsored Sponsored Learn more Undo This Boxed Cereal Is Now Linked to 89% of Age-Related Memory and Brain Fog Cases Daily News | Sponsored Sponsored Undo Cognitive Decline Begins When Seniors Say These 3 Phrases — See Which Ones Forward Digital 101 | Sponsored Sponsored Undo Nobel Prize's Doctors Say Memory Loss Isn't Age: Just Avoid Drinking These 3 Beverages Matrix Ads 101 | Sponsored Sponsored Undo New SUVs With Tiny Price Tags (Take A Look) SearchResultOffers | Search Ads | Sponsored Sponsored Learn More Undo A Billionaire's Reading List: 5 Books Cuban Says Everyone Should Know Blinkist Magazine | Sponsored Sponsored Undo Crepey Skin: Most People Use Lotions. Koreans Do This Instead (It's Genius) Crepey Skin | Sponsored Sponsored Undo Side Sleepers Get Achy Shoulders, Few Know This "Side Sleeper" Trick Sleep Digest Publication | Sponsored Sponsored Undo Average Cost To Rent A Private Jet May Surprise You! (Take A Look) SearchResultOffers | Search Ads | Sponsored Sponsored Learn More Undo At 66, I Stopped Wearing Bras. Here's What I Wear Instead Comfort Living Today | Sponsored Sponsored Learn More Undo More Energy & Environment News See All Energy & Environment Court strikes down New York law that sought to hold fossil fuel companies liable for climate change by Rachel Frazin 3 hours ago Energy & Environment / 3 hours ago Energy & Environment Trump touts Venezuela deal, but political, logistical hurdles stand between US and oil by Rachel Frazin and Laura Kelly 21 hours ago Energy & Environment / 21 hours ago Energy & Environment Trump to meet with oil refiners amid stubborn gas prices by Rachel Frazin 24 hours ago Energy & Environment / 24 hours ago Energy & Environment More storms possible after Grand Canyon flash flood that killed at least 2 by The Associated Press 1 day ago Energy & Environment / 1 day ago See All Video/Hill.TV See all Hill.TV See all Video THE HILL TV Rising: September 1, 2026 by TheHill.com 09/01/26 2:02 PM ET THE HILL TV / 1 hour ago THE HILL TV Rising: August 31, 2026 by TheHill.com 1 day ago THE HILL TV / 1 day ago THE HILL TV Rising: August 28, 2026 by TheHill.com 4 days ago THE HILL TV / 4 days ago See all Hill.TV See all Video Top Stories See All House Congress funds government until December, averting preelection shutdown by Helen Huiskes 1 hour ago House / 1 hour ago See All Most Popular Congress funds government until December, averting preelection shutdown Two Democrats, in highly unusual move, cross the aisle to save GOP bills Haberman: 'No polling' where Trump is popular These 30 occupations could see the fastest job decline in the next ... GOP senator ‘disappointed’ over departure of Army secretary who clashed ... GOP hard-liners threaten rebellion over stopgap funding bill Chief justice dissents on ballroom construction: ‘No victory for separation ... White House to host first press briefing in over 40 days Greg Bovino was under investigation when he retired, records show Duffy thanks Zeldin for getting rid of ‘stop-start’ feature in cars: ‘I ... Massie names Epstein ‘coconspirators,’ discusses new Epstein files ... Trump creates new headache for GOP with call for FCC to crack down on ... MapQuest tops Apple, Google Maps in downloads after refusing Trump’s ‘Lake ... El-Sayed on Vance ‘evil’ remark: ‘What’s evil is corrupting yourself’ Trump approval stuck at lowest level of political career: Survey Army Secretary Dan Driscoll steps down — with a warning Why we should care about what’s happening with Donald and Natalie US strikes IRGC targets in Iran in response to attacks on American forces Load more People were interested in these podcasts Discover more podcasts → Morning Report • 18min Iran war shifts into neutral as six-month mark arrives Play Episode 18min 0:00 2:46:40 Rising • 52min Trump Admin PAUSES immigrant visa applications (PLUS: Jesse Watters CLASHES with El-Sayed) | RISING Play Episode 52min 0:00 2:46:40 Morning Report • 15min Pentagon erupts over classified leak of Iran war dissent Play Episode 15min 0:00 2:46:40 Morning Report • 15min Tough primary season for incumbents reaches grand finale in Massachusetts Play Episode 15min 0:00 2:46:40 Morning Report • 23min Trump takes double blow in Florida, third in Wyoming Play Episode 23min 0:00 2:46:40 Morning Report • 17min Bessent slow rolls ‘Economic D-Day’ on Iran Play Episode 17min 0:00 2:46:40 Powered by DON'T MISS A BRIEF. SIGN UP FOR OUR DAILY EMAIL. News Senate House Campaign 2026 Midterm Elections Regulation Media In The Know More Policy Defense Energy & Environment Healthcare Technology International Transportation Cybersecurity National Security More Video News Video Clips Political News Clips The Hill on Youtube The Hill - Rising Whole Hog Politics More Opinion Contributors to The Hill Columnists Congress Blog More Resources Sitemap The Hill Apps People RSS Print Edition Other Areas Media Contributors Submit Opinion Content About Us Work For The Hill Internships Contact Support Follow Us On Get the App Get the Android app from Google Play Get the iOS app from App Store PRIVACY POLICY 09/30/2025 TERMS & CONDITIONS CONTACT ADVERTISE Get notified of breaking news Subscribe to push notifications NewsNation BestReviews Advertise with Nexstar Journalistic Integrity Your Privacy Choices Cancel My Account THE HILL 400 N CAPITOL STREET NW, SUITE 650 WASHINGTON DC 20002 © 1998 - 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. | All Rights Reserved. ✕ Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Sign In or create a new account. Enter your email and we’ll send a secure one-click link to sign in. Please enter a valid email address Forgot password? Change email By clicking on any of the sign up options below, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use , which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. By clicking on any of the sign up options below, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use , which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. Continue or Sign up with Google No Thanks The Hill is provided by Nexstar Media Inc., and uses the My Nexstar sign-in, which works across our media network. Learn more at nexstar.tv/privacy-policy. Nexstar Media Inc. is a leading, diversified media company that produces and distributes engaging local and national news, sports, and entertainment content across its television and digital platforms. The My Nexstar sign-in works across the Nexstar network—including The CW, NewsNation, The Hill, and more. Learn more at nexstar.tv/privacy-policy. Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Check your email inbox We’ve sent an email containing a verification link which expires in 10 minutes. Try another email Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Thanks for registering! Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Are you sure you want to log out? Log out of all Nexstar properties Log out Cancel Enter your email to receive instructions to reset your password Sign in faster via a magic link sent to your inbox. Reset Password Email Me a Magic Link Email Sent! Check your inbox for instructions to access your account. If you don't see it, check your spam folder. Reset your password Enter a new password below to change your password Password requirements: At least 10 characters At least one number At least one special character At least one uppercase letter At least one lowercase letter RESET PASSWORD Password updated Your password has been reset. Please log in with your new password. Log in INSIDER ← Return to home Go deeper with the source Washington trusts Monthly Yearly Insider Premium $9 .99/ month Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A No display or video ads on TheHill.com* SUBSCRIBE Sign Up Insider Basic $5 .99/ month Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A SUBSCRIBE Sign Up BEST VALUE Insider Premium $99 .99 / yr $89 .99 yr 1 Renews at $99.99 / year thereafter Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A No display or video ads on TheHill.com* TRY FREE FOR 14 DAYS Sign Up Insider Basic $59 .99 / yr $54 .99 yr 1 Renews at $59.99/year thereafter Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A TRY FREE FOR 14 DAYS Sign Up *Advertising restrictions will not apply to The Hill apps, free newsletters, podcasts, or sponsored content. By signing up for a subscription, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use , which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. Already a subscriber? Sign In AUDIO STORIES Powered by Autoplay ✕ Latest Stories My Playlist Your Playlist is Feeling a Bit Lonely! Don't worry, you can easily add your favorite articles to start listening on the go. Explore our latest stories and build your playlist today! Explore Latest Stories Latest Stories Ohio man pleads guilty to smashing windows at Vance’s home 2:35 Copy Link Open in New Tab White House unveils new details of Venezuela agreement 25:01 Copy Link Open in New Tab Hemp ban set to be delayed a month after House passes funding bill 2:50 Copy Link Open in New Tab Border Patrol to join hunt for hiker missing in Grand Canyon flooding 2:00 Copy Link Open in New Tab Tim Cook hands over reins of Apple, keeps political clout 1:46 Copy Link Open in New Tab Russia pounds Kyiv for more than 12 hours, killing at least a dozen in 6th straight day of attacks 6:07 Copy Link Open in New Tab Haitian-born student in Ohio appears to take his own life after losing immigration status 3:13 Copy Link Open in New Tab Zelensky warns airlines Russia’s sky ‘completely unsafe’ 3:15 Copy Link Open in New Tab Milo Yiannopoulos ‘very ashamed’ of support for Trump after deportation 3:30 Copy Link Open in New Tab Carney suggests US officials stop ‘doing memes,’ ‘throwing shade,’ ‘trying to be tough’ 1:49 Copy Link Open in New Tab Loading... No more tracks Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Request Honored Your Privacy Choices Access, delete or correct your data Opt-out of targeted advertising Strictly necessary cookies Access, delete or correct your data We allow you to access, delete, and/or correct your personal information. To submit a request to exercise these privacy rights, you may submit your request here . If you would like to opt-out of the sale of your personal information and the sharing of your personal information to third parties for targeted advertising, please visit the “Opt-out of targeted advertising” tab – you do not need to submit any personally identifiable information to exercise this right. If you would like to opt-out of non-essential cookies, please also select the “Opt-out of targeted advertising” tab. Opt-out of targeted advertising Opt-out of targeted advertising By moving the toggle to the left, you can opt-out of the sharing of your personal information with third parties for targeted advertising. This action will also opt you out of cookies that are not strictly necessary for the functioning of the Properties which may impact your experience and the services we are able to offer. However, you can opt-in again at any time by toggling to the right. If you have enabled privacy controls on your browser (such as a plugin), we will accept that as a valid request to opt-out. Please note that different devices and browsers use different identifiers and technologies, so you must opt-out separately from each one. Performance Cookies Switch Label label These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance. Targeting Cookies Switch Label label These cookies may be set through our site by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other sites. They do not store directly personal information, but are based on uniquely identifying your browser and internet device. If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising. Unknown Cookies Switch Label label Unknown cookies Functional Cookies Switch Label label These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalisation. They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages. If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly. Cookies Details Strictly necessary cookies Always Active These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information. Cookies Details Cookie List Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Confirm My Choice