 Truth Details | Truth Social Opens in a new window Opens an external website Opens an external website in a new window Close this consent banner This website utilizes technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well as for analytics, personalization, and targeted advertising. To learn more, view the following link: Privacy Policy Manage Preferences Storage Preferences Home Home Back Truth Details 5252 replies Donald J. Trump Verified Account Truth+ Premium @realDonaldTrump BREAKING NEWS: The United States of America has just entered into an Agreement with the Country of Venezuela on, THE BIGGEST OIL DEAL IN WORLD HISTORY! At my direction, Secretary of State Marco Rubio, and Secretary of War Pete Hegseth, working closely with Highly Respected Interim President of Venezuela, Delcy Rodriguez, and, through a partnership with private business, have secured majority U.S. control of more than 65 BILLION BARRELS of proven Oil Reserves in Venezuela, at no cost to the American Taxpayer. This Historic Transaction MORE THAN DOUBLES American Oil Reserves, greatly increases our Oil Supply, and will substantially lower Gas Prices for all Americans, long into the future, while helping to continue to set Venezuela on a course toward Tremendous Success and Great Prosperity. This Transaction will greatly strengthen the already growing relationship between Venezuela and the United States! Thank you for your attention to this groundbreaking matter. MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! President DONALD J. TRUMP 12.5k ReTruths 51.7k Likes Aug 28, 2026, 6:47 PM Continue the conversation Sign up now to create your personalized experience. Create Account Sign In New to Truth? Join Truth Social to get the full story and details. Create Account Sign In Get Truth+ 30+ premium networks, on-demand content, 24/7 streaming. 7-day free trial Live American Sunrise Real America's Voice News Now Newsmax 2 On Patrol: Live S4:E48 – Drunks on Fire Trucks Reelz TV Help Center Legal Cookie Preferences Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Proudly made in the United States of America. 🇺🇸 