EU to provide $232.3M funding boost to Greenland - UPI.com

Sept. 7 (UPI) -- Greenland will receive $232.3 million in extra funding from the European Union as the bloc is seeking to strengthen its ties with the self-governing Danish territory, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said Monday.
Von der Leyen added that the package shows "a clear choice" by Greenland to strengthen its ties with the 27-nation EU.
"This partnership package focuses mainly on three domains, or strategic priorities. We call them the big Cs: connectivity, clean energy [and] critical raw materials," Von der Leyen told a news conference alongside Greenlandic Prime Minister Jens-Frederik Nielsen and Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen.
The funds, which are to be invested this year and next, are aimed at bolstering ties between the EU and the Artic island. Von der Leyen called Greenland "a strategic ally and trusted friend."
The package comes a week after Icelandic voters rejected restarting membership talks with the EU and U.S. President Trump has renewed his push to acquire Greenland to ensure national security.
"The European Union continues to be, not only an important partner for Greenland, but also a loyal and trusted friend," Nielsen said.
"Through these challenging times, your support to us is unfailing," he added. "You have stood by us and continue to stand by us. We feel it and are deeply grateful. Thank you."
When asked if there were concerns about how Trump could react to the package and the message he could take from the announcement, Frederiksen said, "We have been under pressure and it has been very clear, and we are very thankful for the great support that we have received from our European partners - but, by the way, also globally."
He said Denmark would like to closely work with the United States on security and defense issues, "but we, of course, would also like to work even closer together with our European allies and that is exactly what we are doing in the Arctic region now."
Trump, who previously refused to rule out annexing Greenland by force, announced in late January he and NATO Secretary Mark Rutte agreed on a "framework of a future deal" relating to Greenland. Representatives from the U.S., Denmark, and Greenland have been holding meetings on moving forward.