House votes to fund government through Dec. 11, avert shutdown before midterms - UPI.com U.S. News World News Korea Regional Review Latin America Region Odd News Entertainment Movies Music TV Sports NFL MLB NBA Soccer Voices Photos News US News World News Entertainment Sports Archive Almanac Trending Lionel Richie Emari Demercado USPS whistleblower Times Square stabbing Mosque attack James Jordan Mosque attack Cuba retail Mysterious island U.S. News Sept. 1, 2026 / 4:36 PM House votes to fund government through Dec. 11 By Jill Keppeler The U.S. House of Representatives voted Tuesday to approve government funding through Dec. 11, avoiding a potential government shutdown before the November midterm elections. File Photo by Bonnie Cash/UPI | License Photo Sept. 1 (UPI) -- Members of the U.S. House of Representatives voted Tuesday to approve short-term government funding, moving to avoid a potential shutdown before the November midterm elections. The resolution passed 370-48 . It extends funding through Dec. 11 and passed with bipartisan support -- and bipartisan opposition. Twenty-nine Democrats and 19 Republicans voted against it. The Senate approved the measure in August. It will now go to President Donald Trump to be signed into law. Funding would have expired at the end of September. It is unusual for Congress to pass a continuing resolution to avoid a shutdown so early, The Hill reported . This Congress has been particularly divided on government funding and holds the record for the longest government shutdown in U.S. history. Some Republicans who voted against the measure said they did so because of provisions added by the Senate. One of these is a delay of a ban on intoxicating hemp products, while another is a provision temporarily blocking a rule that would give more power to political appointees in distributing federal grants. Rep. Tom Cole , R-Okla., the House Appropriations Committee chairman, said he agreed with some changes and not with others but that avoiding a potential shutdown was worth it. "We bought the time that we need to get through the election cycle and hopefully the time that we need to get down to serious bargaining on the other side of it," Cole said. Both the balance of the House of Representatives and the Senate are in play for the November midterm elections. On Tuesday morning, House Democrats met in their first in-person all-caucus in more than a month, with some leaders making a case for passing the measure. Rep. Ted Lieu, D-Calif., vice chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, said he argued that Congress had the time to work on a longer-term funding package. "We have a whole nother month left, and the Republicans who control the House, the Senate and the White House are basically waving the white flag and saying, 'We don't know how to govern, we don't know how to pass appropriations bills,'" Lieu told reporters, The Hill reported. "It is not a good way to run our federal government," he said. "But it's the only alternative that's going to be before us, so I'll be voting for it." This week in Washington President Donald Trump signs an executive order to rename Lake Ontario as Lake America in the Oval Office of the White House on Thursday. Photo by Al Drago/UPI | License Photo Read More Trump lunch with Republican senators becomes shouting match Trump signs bill to fund most of DHS, end shutdown Trump refuses end to DHS shutdown until SAVE Act passes Topics Politics Donald Trump Tom Cole Midterm Elections Latest Headlines U.S. News // 10 minutes ago Tropical Storm Edouard moves inland, flash flooding possible Sept. 1 (UPI) -- Tropical Storm Edouard made landfall Tuesday at the Texas-Louisiana border, moving inland toward the northwest with gusty winds and heavy rainfall. U.S. News // 1 hour ago Maine teenager tied to extremist 764 network sentenced Sept. 1 (UPI) -- A Maine 17-year-old has been charged in federal court and sentenced in connection with online nihilistic extremist groups, the FBI said Tuesday. U.S. News // 1 hour ago Gateway Arch is going dark to help migrating birds St. Louis' Gateway Arch will go dark at night throughout September as millions of birds make their seasonal journey south. U.S. News // 4 hours ago Trump administration urges screen time limits for kids in symposium Sept. 1 (UPI) -- The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services hosted a Live Real Life Symposium Tuesday in Washington, D.C., to ask families to reduce screen time. U.S. News // 5 hours ago U.S. military hits Iran targets again; Trump threatens bigger attacks Sept. 1 (UPI) -- The U.S. military launched new strikes Tuesday on Iran, attacks that President Donald Trump said were in retaliation for Iran's recent actions. U.S. News // 10 hours ago USPS whistleblower says new mail voting policy hidden from public Sept. 1 (UPI) -- A whistleblower has sounded the alarm over the U.S. Postal Service secretly implementing new mail-voting policies that could disrupt the midterms. U.S. News // 5 hours ago Democrats Markey, Moulton seek primary win in Massachusetts Sept. 1 (UPI) -- Massachusetts voters head to the polls Tuesday for primaries, deciding between Democrats Sen. Ed Markey and Rep. Seth Moulton for a Senate seat. U.S. News // 7 hours ago Transportation Department shuts down 110 commercial driving schools Sept. 1 (UPI) -- The U.S. Department of Transportation announced it is shutting down more than 100 commercial driving schools. U.S. News // 7 hours ago Lindsay Clancy jury says it's deadlocked; judge says try again Sept. 1 (UPI) -- The jury in the Lindsay Clancy trial on Tuesday told the judge that they were deadlocked, and he told them to keep trying for a verdict. U.S. News // 8 hours ago California legislature passes ban on shock gloves for law enforcement Sept. 1 (UPI) -- The California legislature passed a bill Monday that bans law enforcement from using shock gloves through 2030. Trending Stories USPS whistleblower says new mail voting policy hidden from public Opposition to oil deal with U.S. grows in Venezuela Mexican forces kill cartel leader targeted by $3M U.S. reward Police fatally shoot woman after deadly Times Square double stabbing John Ternus takes over as CEO of Apple as Tim Cook steps aside Follow Us Back to top About UPI Contact Corrections Advertisements Copyright © 2026 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Privacy Manager