Air Force secretary: U.S. now has weapons in orbit - UPI.com

Sept. 15 (UPI) -- The United States now has weapons in Earth's orbit, the Air Force secretary said Monday.
"We are increasing readiness against existing threats, and the United States has on-orbit space control weapons capable of defending the Joint Force against hostile adversary action," Department of the Air Force Secretary Troy Meink said at a convention in Maryland, according to a press release. He didn't offer details.
The comments were made at the Air, Space and Cyber Conference in National Harbor, Md., which is hosted by the Air and Space Forces Association.
"It is critically important that we maintain our dominance not only in the air but in space, and so we've had to take steps to make sure that when we're threatened, we can take care of that," Meink said.
The Space Force said the buildup of military in space is needed to stay ahead of Russia and China.
"China develops and operates space and counterspace capabilities as part of a military modernization strategy," the U.S. Space Force says on its website. "Russia views space as a warfighting domain and believes space supremacy will be a decisive factor in future conflicts."
China's foreign ministry said Tuesday that China opposes an "outer space arms race."
"We urge the U.S. side to stop expanding its military force and preparing for war in outer space," Guo Jiakun, a spokesperson for China's foreign ministry, said in a regular news briefing.
In February 2024, the White House confirmed that Russia was developing "anti-statellite capability," with a nuclear component but didn't pose an immediate threat.
Soon after President Donald Trump returned to office in 2025, he signed an executive order expanding air defense, including developing and deploying "space-based interceptors." He labeled it the "Golden Dome."
"It is critically important that we maintain our dominance not only in the air but in space, and so we've had to take steps to make sure that when we're threatened, we can take care of that," Meink said Monday.
The Outer Space Treaty of 1967 bans nuclear weapons of mass destruction in orbit, but it doesn't ban the use of conventional weapons in space or using ground-based weapons to defend against space-based weapons.