Nonfarm payrolls grew by 162,000 in August, beat expectations - UPI.com U.S. News World News Korea Regional Review Latin America Region Odd News Entertainment Movies Music TV Sports NFL MLB NBA Soccer Voices Photos News US News World News Entertainment Sports Archive Almanac U.S. News Sept. 4, 2026 / 10:53 AM Nonfarm payrolls grew by 162,000 in August, beat expectations By Joe Fisher Chef Chris Wienhoff removes baked cod fish ready for customers at the first fish fry of the season at St. Gabriels Church in St. Louis on Feb. 24, 2023. Employment was up in food service, drinking establishments and local government education in August, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported on Friday. File Photo by Bill Greenblatt/UPI | License Photo Sept. 4 (UPI) -- Nonfarm payrolls increased by 162,000 in August while the national unemployment rate remained firm at 4.1%, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports on Friday. Total employment's job boost outpaced the 31,000 monthly job gain average over the past 12 months. August's report greatly outperformed the Dow Jones projection of 53,000 new payrolls. Employment was up in food service, drinking establishments and local government education while jobs decreased in the information industry. Food and drink service jobs rose by 59,000, compared to the 12,000 monthly average of new hires over the past year. Health care jobs continued to climb in August, though the gain was slower than the 12 month average, up 13,000 compared to the 32,000 average. Home health posted 11,000 new hires and hospitals added 8,000 jobs. Construction and other major industries like mining, quarrying, oil and gas extraction and wholesale trade changed little for the month of August. Jobs in construction increased by 22,000. Nonresidential specialty trade contractors added 8,000 workers, about 2,000 more than the monthly average over the past year. The average hourly earnings for all private nonfarm workers increased by an average of 10 cents, or about 0.3%, reaching $37.75. Over the past 12 months, average hourly wages have increased by 3.1%. The average workweek also increased in August, up about 0.1% to 34.4 hours in August. Overtime hours remained unchanged from July's 3.1 hours. The Bureau of Labor Statistics report painted a different picture from ADP's report on private payrolls on Wednesday. ADP reported that private payrolls increased by 38,000 in August, marking the slowest month of hiring this year. ADP's slow hiring figure was dragged down by 17,000 jobs lost in the manufacturing sector and 16,000 jobs lost in professional and business services. This week in Washington Vice President JD Vance briefs members of the media in the press room of the White House on Thursday. Photo by Annabelle Gordon/UPI | License Photo Latest Headlines U.S. News // 3 minutes ago Hawaii braces for Hurricane Lowell while still recovering from Lala Hawaii could face its second hurricane impact in a matter of weeks, as Hurricane Lowell threatens communities still recovering from Hurricane Lala. U.S. News // 1 hour ago Epinephrine injection recalled over leaking, cracked vials Sept. 4 (UPI) -- Drugmaker American Regent launched a voluntary recall of epinephrine injection due to leaking and cracked multidose vials USP 30 mg/ 30 mL, 1 mg/mL. U.S. News // 5 hours ago Judge officially declares mistrial in Lindsay Clancy case Sept. 4 (UPI) -- The judge in the Lindsay Clancy murder trial officially declared a mistrial Friday after the jury couldn't agree on a verdict. U.S. News // 2 hours ago North Carolina changes rules about mail-in ballot counting Sept. 4 (UPI) -- North Carolina's State Board of Elections changed the rules for mail-in ballots Friday hours before they were set to be sent out. U.S. News // 3 hours ago Trump: Trade cut with some nations if Fed doesn't lower rates Sept. 4 (UPI) -- President Trump called on the Fed to lower interest rates or warned he'll cut off all trade with countries with which the U.S. has a trade deficit. U.S. News // 4 hours ago New York police shoot and kill man wielding knife on Brooklyn Bridge Sept. 4 (UPI) -- New York City police shot and killed a man walking on beams of on the Brooklyn Bridge Friday morning after he threatened them with a knife. U.S. News // 4 hours ago Watchdog: Lori Chavez-DeRemer misused funds, created hostile workplace Sept. 4 (UPI) -- Former Labor Secretary Lori Chavez-DeRemer misused public funds, fostered a hostile work environment and carried out an inappropriate relationship while in President Donald Trump's Cabinet, a federal watchdog report said U.S. News // 5 hours ago FCC moves to dismiss ABC's free speech lawsuit Sept. 4 (UPI) -- The Federal Communications Commission asked a federal court to dismiss a lawsuit from ABC claiming the FCC was curbing its right to free speech. U.S. News // 6 hours ago Former Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin sentenced to 60 days in jail Sept. 4 (UPI) -- Former Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin was sentenced to 60 days in jail for his resistance to a court order charge Friday after his arrest in Bourbon County. U.S. News // 7 hours ago Kentucky hardens voter protections; USPS policy threatens mail vote Sept. 4 (UPI) -- Kentucky enacted new regulations to stop voters from being kicked off rolls and the USPS has quietly adopted a system to reject ballots en masse. Trending Stories Former Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin sentenced to 60 days in jail FCC moves to dismiss ABC's free speech lawsuit U.N. to vote to adopt new, more accurate world map Ex-Christian podcaster charged with threatening online to kill Trump Volkswagen to cut 50,000 jobs as part of restructuring plan Follow Us Back to top About UPI Contact Corrections Advertisements Copyright © 2026 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of UsePrivacy Policy Privacy Manager