ADP: Private payrolls grew 38,000 in August, a decline from July - UPI.com U.S. News World News Korea Regional Review Latin America Region Odd News Entertainment Movies Music TV Sports NFL MLB NBA Soccer Voices Photos News US News World News Entertainment Sports Archive Almanac Trending Iran attacks Drugging trial Germany bombs Lake Ontario Hung Cao Cuba retail Venezuela oil Bobcat burglary Kyle Van Noy U.S. News Sept. 2, 2026 / 10:59 AM ADP: Private payrolls grew 38,000 in August, a decline from July By Joe Fisher Private payrolls rose by 38,000 in August, though it was less than expected and fell below the 46,000 jobs added in July, ADP reported on Wednesday. File Photo by Tasos Katopodis/UPI | License Photo Sept. 2 (UPI) -- Private payrolls rose by 38,000 in August, though it was less than expected and fell below the 46,000 jobs added in July, ADP reported on Wednesday. August's new hires report was the slowest month in terms of hiring since January with the manufacturing, professional services and information industries cutting jobs. "Pay can tell us a lot about today's choppy hiring," Dr. Nela Richardson, chief economist for ADP, said in a statement. "To understand hiring patterns, you have to look deeply into where pay growth is accelerating, where it's slowing, and for whom. Once-predictable wage growth has been overtaken by the complexities of demographic change, persistent inflation, and AI's effects on jobs." Manufacturing jobs posted the biggest losses, down 17,000, followed by professional and business services, down 16,000. The losses offset a 45,000 gain in education and health services jobs and 16,000 new hires in the leisure and hospitality industry. Large businesses of more than 500 employees added the most new hires, up 34,000, followed by small businesses with one to 19 employees, up 20,000. Small businesses with 20 to 49 employees decreased by 17,000 jobs. The Dow Jones consensus estimate projected 47,000 new hires in August, 9,000 jobs more than ADP's reported results. Wednesday's report comes ahead of the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics' monthly nonfarm payrolls report expected on Friday. This week in Washington President Donald Trump signs an executive order to rename Lake Ontario as Lake America in the Oval Office of the White House on Thursday. Photo by Al Drago/UPI | License Photo Read More USS Abraham Lincoln docks in Thailand for shore leave BP names Ian Tyler as its third chair in less than a year U.N. climate report shows global temperatures rising too fast Topics Business Latest Headlines U.S. News // 42 minutes ago Federal judge: Google doesn't need to break up ad tech business Sept. 2 (UPI) -- A federal judge said Wednesday that Google does not need to break up its advertising technology business, rejecting a Justice Department request. U.S. News // 1 hour ago Poll: U.S. belief that government is corrupt hits 20-year-high Sept. 2 (UPI) -- Americans' belief in the corruption of government is at a 20-year high at 89%, according to a Gallup poll released Wednesday. U.S. News // 1 hour ago Patagonia sues Trump administration over Bears Ears National Monument Sept. 2 (UPI) -- Patagonia, an outdoor apparel company, sued the Trump administration for cuts dramatically shrinking the size of Bears Ears National Monument. U.S. News // 1 hour ago Woman charged with intimidating Lindsay Clancy jury by taking photos Sept. 2 (UPI) -- A woman arrested for taking pictures of jurors outside the courthouse where Lindsay Clancy is on trial was charged with intimidating jurors. U.S. News // 2 hours ago Doctors release vaccine recommendations for RSV, influenza, COVID-19 Sept. 2 (UPI) -- The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention usually launches a fall campaign to recommend vaccines for diseases like RSV and influenza. This year, however, the agency has not issued its updated recommendations. U.S. News // 3 hours ago Uber to lay off more than 3,000 people Sept. 2 (UPI) -- Uber announced Wednesday that it would lay off about 10% of its workforce, about 3,300 people, to make the company "simpler and faster." U.S. News // 3 hours ago U.S. Mint starts selling gold-colored coins with Trump's face Sept. 2 (UPI) -- On Wednesday, the U.S. Mint began selling $1 gold-colored coins marked with the face of President Donald Trump. The coins cost $1.55 to $2.44 each. U.S. News // 4 hours ago 'Blue' sculpture removed from Kennedy Center grounds Sept. 2 (UPI) -- Workers removed a 24-foot-tall blue sculpture by Joel Shapiro from the grounds at the John F. Kennedy Performing Arts Center. U.S. News // 6 hours ago USS Abraham Lincoln docks in Thailand for shore leave Sept. 2 (UPI) -- The USS Abraham Lincoln docked in Thailand Wednesday morning, the first break for the sailors aboard since before Thanksgiving. U.S. News // 7 hours ago New York City to ban AI in elementary, middle schools Sept. 2 (UPI) -- The New York City Department of Education is preparing to roll out a new policy banning the use of AI in elementary and middle schools. Trending Stories 'Blue' sculpture removed from Kennedy Center grounds Iran attacks U.S. bases after CENTCOM strike kills 5 at wedding Trump taps Hung Cao to lead Navy permanently British man accused of drugging, raping wife for decades goes on trial Apple changes name of Lake Ontario to Lake America for U.S. users Follow Us Back to top About UPI Contact Corrections Advertisements Copyright © 2026 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Privacy Manager