Missouri high court blocks redrawn GOP map, earns Trump's ire

Missouri Supreme Court blocks redrawn map, Trump says it's 'horrible'
The Missouri Supreme Court on Sept. 3 blocked the use of a Republican-drawn map in November's midterm elections, ordering approval of the maps to go to voters and provoking the ire of President Donald Trump.
Missouri was one of the states that redrew its maps as part of Trump's redistricting campaign to ensure Republican victory in November. HB1, the bill that set the redrawn maps, was signed by Republican Gov. Mike Kehoe on Sept. 28, 2025.
Anti-gerrymandering group People not Politicians submitted a referendum petition to force Missouri's redrawn map onto the November ballot which, despite having more than the required number of signatures, Missouri Secretary of State Denny Hoskins refused to certify, claiming the petition was unconstitutional.
The state Supreme Court's ruling reversed a circuit court decision that ruled for Hoskins and ordered the referendum onto the November ballot. "The referendum petition was legal, sufficient and timely, and the secretary incorrectly concluded otherwise," the unanimous opinion written by Judge Ginger Gooch reads.
The court also ordered the November elections to take place with the maps drawn in 2022.
"HB1 did not go into effect and will not go into effect unless and until approved by the voters," the opinion reads.
The redrawn maps would have likely handed Republicans a seat in the U.S. House after the Kansas City district currently held by Democratic Rep. Emanuel Cleaver was dismantled. The state's Aug. 4 House primaries took place using the redrawn maps.
USA TODAY has reached out to Hoskins for comment and to clarify if the state will rerun primaries under the 2022 maps.
Trump reacts to Missouri Supreme Court ruling
Trump called the ruling "horrible, ridiculous, and unConstitutional" in a social media post Sept. 3 that urged the state to use the struck-down maps. "The Election Process, as usual, is being disturbed in America!" Trump wrote.
Kehoe said in a social media post that he was "extremely disappointed" in the ruling and blamed "unelected judges" for a "lack of respect for the legislative process."
"Holding a primary election under one congressional map and a general election under another is unprecedented and creates uncertainty for Missouri voters," Kehoe wrote.
The governor said he would stand behind the maps as "the legal process moves forward."
Eric Holder, chairman of the National Democratic Redistricting Committee, said in a statement that the Missouri Supreme Court ruling should be where the legal wrangling over the maps end.
"The state’s Supreme Court, interpreting Missouri law, has ruled unanimously," the former U.S. Attorney General said. "This is not a matter in which the federal Supreme Court should be involved.”
People Not Politicians celebrated the ruling after it was issued.
"This is what democracy looks like, the people of Missouri demanded a voice, and the court just confirmed what we’ve been saying all along. People, not politicians, will have the final say,” Richard von Glahn, the group's executive director in Missouri, said in a statement.
While both Republican- and Democratic-controlled states drew new maps, Republicans eventually emerged as the winners after a U.S. Supreme Court ruling permitted several conservative Southern states to eliminate districts with significant Black populations.
Overall, Republicans improved their chances in 16 districts, including Cleaver's seat in Missouri, while Democrats secured an edge in six districts. Republicans hold a narrow 219-214 majority in the U.S. House, including one independent who caucuses with Republicans.
Contributing: Reuters