Amazon cargo plane crash at Miami airport leaves 5 dead

At least 5 dead after Amazon cargo plane crashed at Miami airport
At least five people are dead and five others injured after an Amazon cargo plane overran a runway at Miami International Airport on Sunday, Sept. 6, according to Miami-Dade Sheriff Rosie Cordero-Stutz.
The Federal Aviation Administration and Amazon confirmed the plane came down striking multiple vehicles. The incident forced the closure of one of the nation's busiest airports.
In a statement to USA TODAY, Miami International Airport confirmed that the plane overran the "diagonal runway and is disabled at the northwest end of the airport." All runways and taxiways are closed.
More than 60 Miami-Dade Fire Rescue units responded to the scene. The fire department said the plane struck multiple vehicles and is "assessing patients," though it is unclear if any injuries have been reported.
A video of the crash obtained by NBC News Miami shows fire and a black cloud of smoke billowing from the aircraft. The FAA has issued a ground stop at the airport until at least 5:30 p.m. ET and said it is investigating the incident.
Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy said travelers using Miami International Airport should expect delays and potential cancellations.
Air Flight 7598, an Amazon Air Boeing 767-300 jet, had departed San Juan, Puerto Rico, earlier in the day Sept. 6. "We're working closely with local authorities and officials to understand exactly what happened," Amazon said in a statement to USA TODAY. "Right now, our absolute priority is the safety, well-being, and care of everyone involved."
USA TODAY reached out to the flight's operator, 21 Air, for comment.
Cargo plane crashes in the US
The crash is the latest in a series of high-profile aircraft accidents in the United States. In November 2025, a UPS cargo jet crashed shortly after takeoff from Louisville Muhammad Ali International Airport in Kentucky, killing 14.
The National Transportation Safety Board found that the left engine detached from the plane and caught fire, the USA TODAY Network previously reported.
In January 2025, an American Airlines regional jet collided with an Army Black Hawk helicopter near Reagan Washington National Airport, killing all 67 people aboard the two aircraft. NTSB members later said the crash resulted from a "multitude of errors" and "systemic issues across multiple organizations."
This story has been updated to add new information.