Justice Department urges Supreme Court to allow USPS mail voting changes Skip to content Toggle Menu Read The Paper Subscribe Account Profile Manage Newsletters Log Out Newsletters Morning Report 12:30 Report Evening Report Business Defense Healthcare Energy & Environment Technology Whole Hog Politics The Gavel The Movement Toggle Menu NEWS Senate House Administration Courts Media Campaign News 2026 Midterm Elections Education In The Know DC News State Watch Print Edition People in the News POLICY Defense Healthcare Energy & Environment Sports & Gaming Technology Transportation International Cybersecurity National Security Space BUSINESS Budget Taxes Personal Finance Lobbying HEALTH OPINION Columnists Congress Blog All Contributors Opinions – Campaign Opinions – Civil Rights Opinions – Criminal Justice Opinions – Cybersecurity Opinions – Education Opinions – Energy and Environment Opinions – Finance Opinions – Healthcare Opinions – Immigration Opinions – International Opinions – Judiciary Opinions – National Security Opinions – Technology Opinions – White House Submit Opinion Content EVENTS Upcoming Events About VIDEOS HILL INSIDER Subscribe Account Profile Manage Newsletters Log Out Newsletters NEWS POLICY BUSINESS HEALTH OPINION EVENTS VIDEOS HILL INSIDER Live: Vance press briefing Trending: Maria Bartiromo Hegseth GOP Iowa races Sponsored: Content from Association for Consumer Debt Relief Just In Trump administration warns agencies could stop helping Smithsonian Administration | 2 minutes ago Trump announces Telle as acting Army Secretary following Driscoll’s resignation Administration | 39 minutes ago What to know about respiratory vaccine recommendations Healthcare Newsletter | 45 minutes ago Vance ‘extremely skeptical’ of Iran wedding attack reports Defense & National Security Newsletter | 56 minutes ago Pentagon sought to divert NIH funds for defense use, top House Appropriations Democrat says House | 1 hour ago Judge halts EPA effort to overturn California car rules Energy & Environment Newsletter | 1 hour ago Benchmark mortgage rate hits highest mark in more than a year Business | 1 hour ago Forest Service closing 23 research sites Energy & Environment | 1 hour ago View all Load more Court Battles Postal Service asks Supreme Court to allow Trump’s mail voting changes Comments: by Zach Schonfeld - 09/03/26 4:45 PM ET Comments: Link copied by Zach Schonfeld - 09/03/26 4:45 PM ET Comments: Link copied NOW PLAYING The Justice Department urged the Supreme Court on Thursday to clear the way for the U.S. Postal Service to implement President Trump’s executive order targeting mail voting in time for the midterms. The high court previously lifted the judge’s block on the president’s executive order itself. Now, the judge has blocked the Postal Service’s final plan. “The district court’s continued prejudgment of the rule is baseless,” Solicitor General D. John Sauer wrote in the government’s application. U.S. District Judge Indira Talwani, an appointee of former President Obama who serves on the federal bench in Boston, has so far only temporarily put the Postal Service rule on hold until the next stage of the case. But with only about 60 days until the midterm elections, the clock is ticking. Sauer noted that North Carolina intends to begin mailing ballots Friday, and Alabama will do so next week. The Postal Service’s plan would mandate that states’ mail-in ballots meet design requirements — such as unique barcodes and an official logo — and require election officials to upload lists of voters who are eligible to vote by mail. If a ballot doesn’t meet the specifications or someone isn’t on the submitted list, the Postal Service will refuse to deliver it. The plan has come under legal challenges by blue states and private groups. They argue the rule interferes with state election administration and that the Postal Service has no authority for its plan. The blue states and private groups suing have until Tuesday morning to respond. “Contrary to the claims of the district court and respondents that the Postal Service is trying to federalize the rules for mail-in voting, the Postal Service’s final rule imposes only modest envelope-design and addressee-information requirements for federal-election ballots,” Sauer wrote to the Supreme Court. Last month, the high court rebuked the judge by ruling that the states likely have no standing to sue over Trump’s executive order itself. Talwani’s new order focuses on the Postal Service’s plan to implement the president’s directive, which was only finalized in recent days. She held a hearing earlier Thursday on whether to block the Postal Service’s plan indefinitely but has yet to rule. “USPS’s mail ballot rule is an unconstitutional attempt to upend mail voting on the eve of an election,” Sophia Lin Lakin, director of the American Civil Liberties Union’s Voting Rights Project, which represents some of the challengers, said in a statement. “The district court temporarily blocked the rule’s key provision while it decides the request for preliminary relief through an order set to expire within days. Yet President Trump’s administration is running to the Supreme Court anyway. The only emergency here is the one the administration created. The court’s temporary order preserves the voting procedures Americans have relied on for years, and it should stand,” she continued. Updated at 6:38 p.m. EDT Add as preferred source on Google Tags Barack Obama Donald Trump John Sauer Copyright 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Comments: Link copied More Court Battles News See All Campaign Missouri Supreme Court throws out GOP-favored House maps by Caroline Vakil and Julia Mueller 2 hours ago Campaign / 2 hours ago Court Battles Lindsay Clancy trial jurors excused again after defense blames one for deadlock by Sarah Davis 2 hours ago Court Battles / 2 hours ago Court Battles Former pardon attorney challenges firing after refusing to restore Mel Gibson’s gun rights by Rebecca Beitsch 5 hours ago Court Battles / 5 hours ago Energy & Environment CBP extends pause of some border construction, including in Texas national park by Rachel Frazin 8 hours ago Energy & Environment / 8 hours ago See All Video/Hill.TV See all Hill.TV See all Video THE HILL TV Rising: September 3, 2026 by TheHill.com 09/03/26 1:44 PM ET THE HILL TV / 6 hours ago THE HILL TV Rising: September 2, 2026 by TheHill.com 1 day ago THE HILL TV / 1 day ago THE HILL TV Rising: September 1, 2026 by TheHill.com 2 days ago THE HILL TV / 2 days ago See all Hill.TV See all Video FOR HILL INSIDERS Can El-Sayed overcome party tensions to beat Rogers in Michigan? Data Nerds 09/03/26 On the Ballot: The provocateur both parties can’t stop talking about On The Ballot 09/03/26 Some Republicans are planning to skip Trump’s GOP convention Campaign 09/03/26 CDC, Pennsylvania’s growing feud over measles: 4 things to know Healthcare 09/03/26 Read More Most Popular Hegseth headed for clash with GOP senators as frustrations grow Former pardon attorney challenges firing after refusing to restore Mel ... Postal Service asks Supreme Court to allow Trump’s mail voting changes Contempt of Congress yields mixed results Missouri Supreme Court throws out GOP-favored House maps Driscoll breaks silence after resigning as Army secretary Panetta: Hegseth is ‘undermining the strength’ of the US military Pentagon temporarily rescinds mandatory testosterone testing guidance Live updates: Vance addresses gas prices, Iran in briefing; DOJ asks Supreme ... Lindsay Clancy trial jurors excused again after defense blames one for deadlock Rove: ‘Time is running out’ for Paxton in Texas Senate race Maria Bartiromo out at Fox News Jim Justice considering run for West Virginia governor Harris on some Democrats shunning her: ‘I would expect nothing less’ Interior preparing to start work on Trump’s arch ‘over the next two-week ... Missouri House candidate charged in alleged plot to plant cocaine on opponent Trump announces Telle as acting Army Secretary following Driscoll’s ... Pentagon sought to divert NIH funds for defense use, top House Appropriations ... Load more DON'T MISS A BRIEF. SIGN UP FOR OUR DAILY EMAIL. News Senate House Campaign 2026 Midterm Elections Regulation Media In The Know More Policy Defense Energy & Environment Healthcare Technology International Transportation Cybersecurity National Security More Video News Video Clips Political News Clips The Hill on Youtube The Hill - Rising Whole Hog Politics More Opinion Contributors to The Hill Columnists Congress Blog More Resources Sitemap The Hill Apps People RSS Print Edition Other Areas Media Contributors Submit Opinion Content About Us Work For The Hill Internships Contact Support Follow Us On Get the App Get the Android app from Google Play Get the iOS app from App Store PRIVACY POLICY 09/30/2025 TERMS & CONDITIONS CONTACT ADVERTISE WITH THE HILL NewsNation BestReviews Advertise with Nexstar Journalistic Integrity Your Privacy Choices Cancel My Account THE HILL 400 N CAPITOL STREET NW, SUITE 650 WASHINGTON DC 20002 © 1998 - 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. | All Rights Reserved. ✕ Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Sign In or create a new account. Enter your email and we’ll send a secure one-click link to sign in. Please enter a valid email address Forgot password? Change email By clicking on any of the sign up options below, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use, which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. By clicking on any of the sign up options below, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use, which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. Continue or No Thanks The Hill is provided by Nexstar Media Inc., and uses the My Nexstar sign-in, which works across our media network. Learn more at nexstar.tv/privacy-policy. Nexstar Media Inc. is a leading, diversified media company that produces and distributes engaging local and national news, sports, and entertainment content across its television and digital platforms. The My Nexstar sign-in works across the Nexstar network—including The CW, NewsNation, The Hill, and more. Learn more at nexstar.tv/privacy-policy. Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Check your email inbox We’ve sent an email containing a verification link which expires in 10 minutes. Try another email Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Thanks for registering! Provided by Nexstar Media Inc. Are you sure you want to log out? Log out of all Nexstar properties Log out Cancel Enter your email to receive instructions to reset your password Sign in faster via a magic link sent to your inbox. Reset Password Email Me a Magic Link Email Sent! Check your inbox for instructions to access your account. If you don't see it, check your spam folder. Reset your password Enter a new password below to change your password Password requirements: At least 12 characters RESET PASSWORD Password updated Your password has been reset. Please log in with your new password. Log in INSIDER ← Return to home Go deeper with the source Washington trusts Monthly Yearly Insider Premium $9 .99/ month Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A No display or video ads on TheHill.com* SUBSCRIBE Sign Up Insider Basic $5 .99/ month Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A SUBSCRIBE Sign Up BEST VALUE Insider Premium $99 .99 / yr $89 .99 yr 1 Renews at $99.99 / year thereafter Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A No display or video ads on TheHill.com* TRY FREE FOR 14 DAYS Sign Up Insider Basic $59 .99 / yr $54 .99 yr 1 Renews at $59.99/year thereafter Members-only newsletters Exclusive deep-dive reporting Live editor calls + Q&A TRY FREE FOR 14 DAYS Sign Up *Advertising restrictions will not apply to The Hill apps, free newsletters, podcasts, or sponsored content. By signing up for a subscription, you confirm that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use, which includes a jury trial waiver and class action waiver, and that you have read our Privacy Policy detailing our collection, use and sharing of your personal information. Already a subscriber? Sign In