What to know about mail-in voting and Trump’s order : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Open Navigation Menu Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Up First Here & Now NPR Politics Podcast Featured Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Fresh Air Wild Card with Rachel Martin It's Been a Minute Embedded Get NPR+ More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop Get NPR+ Tiny Desk New Music Friday All Songs Considered Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics What to know about mail-in voting and Trump’s order The Trump administration has asked the Supreme Court to lift a temporary block on the U.S. Postal Service plan for President Trump's attempt to restrict mail-in voting for the midterm election. Elections Trump asks Supreme Court to lift block on USPS plan to restrict mail voting September 3, 20264:48 PM ET Hansi Lo Wang An election worker processes mail-in ballots in June in Industry, Calif. Justin Sullivan/Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Justin Sullivan/Getty Images The Trump administration has asked the Supreme Court to lift a block on the U.S. Postal Service plan for President Trump's attempt to restrict mail-in voting for the midterm election. For now, key parts of that plan are blocked by a temporary restraining order from a federal judge in Boston. As the legal fight over Trump's mail-in voting order continues, here's what to know about the state of voting by mail for the midterms: Has the USPS plan directly changed mail-in voting for the midterms? No, key parts of the plan, including requirements for states, are currently blocked by a court order. Voting by mail is still available to all voters who are eligible for it in their states, and USPS is expected to deliver mail-in ballots for the midterm election as usual. Sponsor Message How could the USPS plan change mail-in voting? State election officials would be required to turn over lists of mail-in voters' names and addresses to USPS and have certain barcodes on their mail ballot envelopes, according to a revised rule for federal ballot mail the Postal Service issued in August. USPS says it would not deliver ballots to voters for election officials that don't meet those requirements. When does mail-in voting start for the midterms? North Carolina has to start mailing out its absentee ballots on Friday, which officially kicks off the voting season for this year's midterms. Many other states are set to begin sending out their mail-in ballots later this month. Is it possible for the USPS plan to be carried out for the midterms? Many election experts say it is too late for USPS to carry out this plan without causing major disruptions. A whistleblower report claims USPS has not properly tested the online portal system that would collect mail-in voters' information. The report also alleges the agency has set up a policy for verifying ballot envelopes that could result in many voters not getting their ballots in time for the midterm election or at all. What are the legal arguments for and against the USPS plan? USPS came up with this plan in response to a March executive order by President Trump, who said he issued the directives to USPS to stop illegal voting by non-U.S. citizens. Many studies and audits show, however, that problem is incredibly rare. While USPS claims its revised rule is an effort to regulate mail, challengers of the USPS plan argue it is illegal because the mailing agency has no authority to control voting by mail. Sponsor Message Hasn't the Supreme Court already ruled on Trump's mail-in voting order? Yes, the Supreme Court ruled in August on a procedural question about one of the lawsuits. But so far, the justices have not ruled on the legality of the order or the USPS plan. Editor's note: USPS is a financial supporter of NPR. Edited by Megan Pratz NPR does not offer or accept money for coverage or interviews. Anyone who makes such an offer or request is not an NPR employee and does not represent NPR. voting stories 2026 midterms Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor