Trump administration makes another appeal to Supreme Court to allow mail ballot restrictions | PBS News

By — Lindsay Whitehurst, Associated Press Lindsay Whitehurst, Associated Press By — Gary Fields, Associated Press Gary Fields, Associated Press Share Copy URL https://www.pbs.org/newshour/politics/trump-administration-makes-another-appeal-to-supreme-court-to-allow-mail-ballot-restrictions Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest Tumblr Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Trump administration makes another appeal to Supreme Court to allow mail ballot restrictions Politics Updated on Sep 6, 2026 11:54 AM EDT — Published on Sep 6, 2026 11:15 AM EDT WASHINGTON (AP) — The Trump administration on Sunday renewed its appeal to the Supreme Court after a federal judge blocked new restrictions on mail ballots ahead of the midterms. The filing came after U.S. District Court Judge Indira Talwani extended an order against the Postal Service enforcing President Donald Trump's executive order for the November elections. WATCH: How Trump's attempt to restrict mail ballots is being challenged in court The legal wrangling comes even as states start sending out mail ballots, leaving the administration little time to make big changes in mail ballot rules. "Ballots have already begun to be mailed in North Carolina, and more States will begin the mailing process as the injunction remains in place — including Alabama on September 9 and at least five States the week of September 13," Solicitor General John Sauer said in the filing. "Once those ballot envelopes enter the mailstream, there is no retrieving them. And while the injunction allows the Postal Service and the States to continue taking steps to ensure that their envelopes satisfy the Rule's requirements ... each day the injunction is in place risks sowing confusion and chaos because the injunction makes those preparatory steps voluntary, rather than mandatory." Educate your inbox Subscribe to Here’s the Deal, our politics newsletter for analysis you won’t find anywhere else. Enter your email address Subscribe Form error message goes here. Thank you. Please check your inbox to confirm. The appeal marks the third time the administration has asked the high court to intervene. The high court has allowed the plan to move forward but not ruled on whether it is legal. The battle could have major ramifications for this year's elections, when control of Congress is at stake. Nearly one-third of voters in the U.S. cast mail ballots. Democratic states and voting rights groups say the changes are unconstitutional. Election officials contend there isn't enough time to revise their systems to comply with the new Postal Service directives. WATCH: Whistleblower warns USPS rushing new system that could jeopardize mail-in ballots The Trump administration has framed the restrictions as commonsense changes that are within its power to regulate the mail. "Simply put, the best way to address respondents' fears about inability to comply with the Rule is to grant an immediate administrative stay of the order, followed by a full stay pending further review," Sauer said. "That will remove the improper cloud of uncertainty that the district court has cast over the Rule, making clear to all involved that compliance with the Rule is not optional and must start without further delay." The filing added that eligibility for mail-in and absentee voting will continue to be governed by state law and state and local officials will determine who is eligible to use the method and which ballots are eligible to be counted. "The Postal Service will not play any role in determining voter eligibility, maintaining voter rolls, or counting ballots." Trump has long sought to limit mail voting, even though he himself often uses that method to cast his own ballot. He has falsely blamed mail balloting for his 2020 election loss to Democrat Joe Biden, spreading baseless claims of fraud. But so far, he has been unable to change the longstanding voting procedure. A free press is a cornerstone of a healthy democracy. Support trusted journalism and civil dialogue. Donate now By — Lindsay Whitehurst, Associated Press Lindsay Whitehurst, Associated Press By — Gary Fields, Associated Press Gary Fields, Associated Press