Election Mail - about.usps.com
Effective Nov. 29, international mail service to Canada is temporarily suspended, due to the strike of the Canadian Union of Postal Workers. Read more.
Jump to page content
Who we are
Postal profile
Our history
Postal Facts
Leadership
Board of Governors
Executive leadership
Leadership organization
Government Relations
Our role
Current priorities
Key topics
Economic impact
Law Department
Judicial Officer
Board of Contract Appeals decisions
Administrative decisions
Rules of Practice
Stamp committee
Background
Members
Selection process
Selection criteria
Artwork
Reproduction
Resources
What we do
Strategic planning
Delivering for America
Archived publications
Business services
Licensing
Rights and permissions
Suppliers
Facilities leasing and property management
Delivery growth management
Public Key Infrastructure
Mailer resources
Auctions
Government services
Apply for a passport
Election Mail
Political Mail
Social responsibility
Community activities
Securing the mail
Sustainability
Performance
Financials
Service performance results
Household Mail Survey
Divider
Newsroom
News
National news
Local news
Statements
Testimony and speeches
Service alerts
Residential issues
Business issues
International issues
Holidays and events
Digital Media
Resources
Publications
Manuals
Handbooks
Publications
Kits
Management instructions
Notices
Posters
Signs and labels
Find a form
Applications
Confirmation services
Employment
First-Class Mail, Priority Mail, Priority Mail Express
International
Postal Bulletin
The Eagle magazine
Careers
Career opportunities
Top jobs
Students and graduates
Military
Working at USPS
Compensation and benefits
Career development
How to apply
Application process
Exams
Legacy website (eCareer) help
Click to search
Search
Submit
Who we are
What we do
Newsroom
Resources
Careers
Open/close navigation menu
Overview
Strategic planning
Business services
Government services
Social responsibility
Performance
Election Mail
Próximamente traducción al español.
Introduction
Voters
Military & Overseas
Election Officials
Guidance & Resources
Click to show more options to the left
Click to show more options to the right
Introduction
The American public can rely on the United States Postal
Service’s over 640,000 employees to deliver the nation’s
Election Mail.
Continue for
Voters
Election Officials
Industry Alert – Postal Service is not enforcing the federal ballot mail rule for 2026
The Postal Service provides a secure, efficient and
effective way for citizens to participate when policymakers
choose to use the mail as part of their election systems or
when voters choose to use our services to participate in an
election. The Postal Service has a robust and tested process
for proper handling and timely delivery of Election Mail.
Every federal election cycle, we make efforts across the
nation to inform local and state election officials about
mailing procedures, our operational standards, and our
recommended best practices for utilizing the mail.
Postmarks: If you want to ensure that
your mail receives a postmark on the day you mail it, ask
a retail associate at a Post Office retail counter to
hand-cancel it for free.
Learn more
What is Election Mail?
It’s any item mailed to or from authorized election
officials that enables citizens to participate in the voting
process — including ballots, sample ballots, voter
registration cards, absentee voting applications and polling
place notifications. Ballot Mail is a subset of Election
Mail. It consists of any mailpiece sent to or from an
authorized election official containing a live ballot that
may be used to cast a vote in an election. Election Mail
should not be confused with
Political Mail , which is any material mailed for campaign purposes by a
registered political candidate, campaign committee or
committee of a political party, as well as any material
mailed by a political action committee or organization
engaging in issues advocacy or voter mobilization.
Look for the Official Election Mail logo!
The Official Election Mail logo is a unique registered
trademark designed exclusively for inclusion in the design
of official Election Mail. Election officials are not
required to use the logo, but the logo does appear on most
Election Mail. When the Official Election Mail logo appears
on a mailpiece, voters recognize the mail as important and
distinct from partisan political mailings. Additionally, the
logo serves to identify official Election Mail for Postal
Service ™ workers and distinguishes it from the
millions of other mailpieces that are processed daily.
The Official Election Mail logo should be used on any
mailpiece created by an election official that is mailed to
or from a citizen of the United States for the purpose of
enabling participation in the voting process. This includes
ballots, sample ballots, voter registration cards, absentee
applications, polling place notifications. The logo should
be used on all classes of mail and all processing
categories.
We protect your mail
The United States Postal Inspection Service is responsible
for ensuring the safety of all mail, including Election
Mail. Please visit the Postal Inspection Service website for
more information relating to
Election Mail
security. To report law enforcement matters relating to
Election Mail and for general information about the
Inspection Service please visit
www.uspis.gov .
Voters
If you choose to vote by mail, we encourage you to explore
resources available from your state and local election
authorities. They can provide information about processes,
rules, deadlines and policies specific to your state.
USPS ® guidance and recommendations on how to
successfully use the mail can be found below.
Video: Election Mail PSA: Consumer
Learn about voting in your area
Find your state election website
To report an issue related to voting by mail, as a voter, please contact your local
election office
.
For all other USPS customer support issues, including mail and package tracking, customer service contacts and technical support, please visit USPS customer support
.
Need more voter information?
Election Assistance Commission
National Association of Secretaries of State
National Association of State Election Directors
Vote.gov
Federal Voting Assistance Program
Department of State
FAQs for domestic, nonmilitary voters
Expand all
Why should I be aware of the time it takes the
Postal Service to deliver mail?
It’s important to understand your local
jurisdiction’s rules and requirements for
participating in an election. If you are eligible to
vote by mail and choose to do so, you should plan
ahead to give yourself enough time to receive and
then complete and return your ballot by your state’s
deadlines.
When should I mail my completed ballot?
If you are a nonmilitary voter located in the United
States and you choose to use the mail to return your
completed ballot, our general recommendation is
that, as a common-sense measure, you mail your
completed ballot before Election Day, and at least
one week prior to the deadline by which your
completed ballot must be received by your election
office.
Some states may recommend allowing even more time
for mailing completed ballots. In addition, some
states require all ballots (including mail-in
ballots) to be received by the election office by a
specified deadline, while other states may accept
ballots received after that deadline as timely if
they were mailed and postmarked by a specific date.
You should always check to make sure you understand
your state’s requirements and recommendations on
mailing your completed ballot. You can look for
information about your state’s requirements and
recommendations here:
Find your state election website .
Do I need to request a mail-in ballot? If so, how
early should I request it?
Some jurisdictions automatically mail ballots to all
eligible voters. In jurisdictions that require
eligible voters to request a ballot in order to
receive one through the mail, we recommend that
domestic, nonmilitary voters request their ballot as
early as their jurisdiction allows.
If I choose to return my ballot by mail, how much
postage do I need to mail my ballot?
Mailpieces containing a completed ballot are handled
as First-Class Mail ® service, regardless
of whether they are prepaid by election officials or
mailed with a stamp affixed by the voter. The only
situation where a completed ballot is not handled as
First-Class Mail is when the voter opts to pay for a
premium service like Priority Mail® service or
Priority Mail Express ® service.
Unless your state or local election officials
provide you with a prepaid return envelope, you
should make sure appropriate postage is affixed to
your return ballot envelope. To help voters, the
Postal Service requires election officials to inform
voters of the amount of First-Class postage required
to return their ballots, if the voter decides to
return their completed ballot by mail.
Will my completed ballot-return envelope be
postmarked if I mail it?
The Postal Service tries to ensure that every piece
of Ballot Mail returned by voters receives a
postmark, regardless of whether it is mailed with
postage prepaid by election officials or mailed with
a stamp affixed by the voter.
If voters want to ensure that their completed
ballot-return envelope receives a postmark, and that
the postmark date aligns with the date of mailing,
they should bring their mailpiece to the retail
counter at a Postal Service retail location and
request a manual postmark, which will be applied
free of charge upon accepting custody of the
mailpiece.
Learn more about
postmarking .
What about completed ballots that are mailed close
to Election Day?
The Postal Service recognizes that Election Mail,
and Ballot Mail in particular, is time-sensitive. We
are committed to the expeditious processing and
delivery of Ballot Mail. However, to minimize the
risk that Ballot Mail will not arrive before your
state’s deadline, we recommend as a best practice
that voters act early if they plan to use the mail
to return their completed ballot.
Military and overseas voters
The mail is an important vehicle to enable U.S. military
members and citizens who live abroad to vote in elections.
Here’s what you need to know
Ballot Mail needs extra time and special tags for
addresses at Army and Air Force Post Offices (APOs), Fleet
Post Offices (FPOs) and Diplomatic Post Offices (DPOs).
Ballot Mail from other international addresses will need
extra time as well and need to consider longer
international mailing times.
In jurisdictions that require eligible voters to request a
ballot in order to receive one through the mail, we
recommend eligible voters who live abroad should request a
ballot as early as their jurisdiction allows.
Uniformed services voters who are overseas with
authorized APO/FPO/DPO addresses may be able to return
absentee ballots using Priority Mail Express service
with Label 11-DOD,
DOD Express Mail Label Absentee Ballot . The label
includes “Waiver of Signature” and “Guaranteed by End of
Day” endorsements so Ballot Mail can be delivered the
day they arrive at the destination Post Office
facility.
The Military Postal Service Agency distributes Label
11-DOD overseas and covers postage.
Label 11-DOD may be used only by absent overseas uniformed
services voters, as defined by the Uniformed and Overseas
Citizens Absentee Voting Act, for Ballot Mail returned at
authorized APO/FPO/DPO locations in qualifying elections.
Label 11-DOD may be used on any size return Ballot Mail
envelope. It always goes in the upper right corner of the
Ballot Mail envelope.
Voters can keep part of the tracking label to use the
tracking number to track their Ballot Mail.
For more information:
Your local election official is a good source of
additional information and can help answer your questions.
Overseas voters who are not affiliated with the U.S.
military or overseas offices of the U.S. government can
find more information here:
Department of State
Refer to “Special Procedures APO/FPO/DPO and Overseas
Citizens Absentee Ballots” in the
USPS Election Mail Kit
Postal Explorer ® Guidelines for APO and FPO
Mailing
Federal Voting Assistance Program
Election Officials
We work closely with election officials at all levels of
government to provide recommendations on mailpiece design,
mailing preparation and entry, and delivery timing.
Get the Election Mail kit
Expand all
Mailing recommendations
We know that each state has its own rules,
guidelines and requirements, and we encourage
voters to understand their state’s rules and
deadlines, and to plan ahead.
We also recognize that voters have options other
than the mail for participating in the electoral
process. To ensure that individuals who wish to use
the mail to vote can do so successfully, election
officials and voters should keep in mind the time
required for both legs of a completed ballot’s
delivery through the mail — to the voter and back to
election offices.
Mailpiece design
A well-designed mailpiece can support timely
delivery and ensure compatibility with USPS mail
processing equipment and operational
capabilities.
Election Mail and Ballot Mail sent to or from an
authorized election official should bear the
Official Election Mail logo and Intelligent Mail ®
barcode.
For more details, download:
Publication
631: Official Election Mail – Graphic Guidelines
and Logos
USPS Mailpiece Design Analysts (MDAs)
are specially trained USPS employees who can answer
questions about mailpiece design, give advice on
evaluating pieces of mail for automation discounts,
provide technical assistance on envelope standards,
and help construct mailing plans. See below to
request a design review
by an MDA.
For assistance from an MDA call 877-672-0007 (select
option 2 for mailing and shipping, then option 2 for
MDA). Hours of operation are Monday through Friday,
7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Central Time (closed federal
holidays).
Election Mail visibility
Election officials should be familiar with and
use all available tools to improve the visibility
of their Election Mail within the postal
network.
The Postal Service recommends using green Tag 191,
Domestic and International Ballots, unique
three-digit codes known as Service Type IDentifiers
(STIDs), and serialized Intelligent Mail ®
barcodes (IMb ® ) to identify Ballot Mail
within the postal network.
In addition, election offices should include the
Official Election Mail logo (a registered trademark
designed exclusively for Election Mail) on envelopes
and check the Election Mail boxes at induction to
help improve the visibility of Election Mail and
Ballot Mail in the mail stream.
These identifiers have increased the visibility of
outbound and return Election Mail within the
automation environment.
Review the Official Election Mail logo’s
guidelines
Order green Tag 191
Learn about Ballot Mail STIDs
Read more about Intelligent Mail barcodes
(IMb)
Use the Election Mail checkboxes
Prepaid postage and reply mail
The Postal Service has a number of solutions
available to assist election officials with
prepaid reply mail.
Some state and local election officials have
expressed interest in expanding the use of prepaid
reply mail so voters don’t have to pay for postage
when returning their ballots by mail. The Postal
Service has a number of solutions available to
assist election officials with prepaid reply mail.
If a prepaid return envelope is not used,
appropriate postage should be affixed to the return
Ballot Mail envelope. To help voters, the Postal
Service requires election officials to inform voters
of the amount of First-Class postage required to
return their Ballot Mail.
USPS contact forms for Election Officials
The Postal Service can assist local and state election
officials with any of their Election Mail needs.
Election Mail design review
Mailpiece Design Analysts (MDAs) are specially trained
postal employees who evaluate mailpiece design,
automation discount opportunities, envelope standards,
and more.
Request a design review
Contact a Local Manager, Customer Relations
Local Managers, Customer Relations serve as primary
points of contact
to guide election officials through
the mailing process and match postal services with
their needs.
Contact Customer Relations
Report a problem
Election officials can receive support by notifying
the Postal Service of any Election Mail service
issues.
Report a problem
For further Election Mail assistance, call 877-672-0007
(select option 2 for mailing requirements or option 3 for
mailpiece design). Hours of operation are Monday through
Friday, 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Central Time (closed federal
holidays).
FAQs for Election Officials
Expand all
What causes issues with Election Mail?
Two common causes of Election Mail issues are poorly
designed mailpieces and state laws or other binding
directives that do not build in enough time to
account for mail delivery timeframes for
time-sensitive Election Mail that is sent to and
returned by voters using the mail. To ensure that
individuals who wish to use the mail to vote can do
so successfully, election officials and voters
should keep in mind the time required for both legs
of a ballot’s delivery through the mail — to the
voter and back to election offices.
Can the Intelligent Mail ® barcode be used
on Election Mail?
Yes, it can be applied to most Election Mail and the
Postal Service strongly recommends its use by
election officials. This barcode is used to sort and
track individual pieces of mail and gain greater
visibility into the flow of the mail. It allows
mailers, in this case, election officials, to
participate in multiple USPS programs
simultaneously, expand their ability to track
individual pieces of mail, and see where ballots are
within the mailstream. Refer to the
Election Mail kit
for more information.
Should I include the Official Election Mail logo?
The Postal Service recommends that election
officials include the Official Election Mail logo on
their Election Mail, but use of the logo is not
required. The Official Election Mail logo should be
used on any mailpiece created by an election
official that is mailed to or from a citizen of the
United States for the purpose of participating in
the voting process.
When the Official Election Mail logo appears on a
mailpiece, voters recognize the mail as important
and as distinct from partisan political mailings.
Additionally, the logo serves to identify official
Election Mail for Postal Service workers and
distinguishes it from the millions of other
mailpieces that are processed daily.
Since this logo is a registered trademark, it is
important for election officials to:
Read and comply with the requirements for its use.
For more details, download:
Publication 631: Official Election Mail –
Graphic Guidelines and Logos
Request a design review
with an MDA via online form or by calling
877-672-0007 (select option 2 for mailing and
shipping, then option 2 for MDA). Hours of
operation are Monday through Friday, 7 a.m. to 7
p.m. Central Time (closed federal holidays).
When should voters mail their completed ballots?
The Postal Service generally recommends that
domestic, nonmilitary voters who choose to return
their completed ballots by mail do so before
Election Day, and at least one week prior to the
deadline by which their completed ballot must be
received by their election office. Some states may
recommend allowing even more time for mailing
completed ballots. Voters need to understand their
jurisdiction’s requirements and recommendations, and
we provide them with the following link to help:
Find your state election website . It’s also recommended that overseas voters return
their ballots using a level of service that, based
on the information available, should result in the
ballot being received by the applicable state
deadline. We strongly advise election officials to
factor into their planned mailings the time it will
take to both send and receive Election Mail.
What happens in case of a natural disaster or other
emergency?
The Postal Service can use localized continuity of
operations plans in case of emergencies to help
ensure that the USPS system continues to function
for the American people. With a longstanding history
of quickly adapting operational plans to changing
conditions, the Postal Service maintains steady
communications with mailers during natural disasters
or other events that require emergency responses. We
keep residential customers and business mailers
updated on facility service disruptions on the USPS
service alerts
page.
Guidance documents & resources for Election Officials
KIT 600: Official Election Mail Guide
PDF
HTML
Kit 600 supplementals
Publication 631: Official Election Mail - Graphic
Guidelines and Logos
Publication 632: State and Local Election Mail - User's
Guide
Guidance documents
Facilitating return ballots using prepaid postage
Mail security
flyer
Military absentee
ballots FAQs
Additional resources
Absentee balloting materials, DMM ®
703.8.0
General Election Mail Preparedness Memorandum
USPS Service Standards
2026 Postal Bulletin: Election and Political Mail Guide
Post-election reports
2024 Post-Election Analysis Report
2022 Post-Election Analysis Report
2021 Post-Election Analysis Report
2020 Post-Election Analysis Report
Additional USPS related services
Political Mail
Political Mail is an easy way to promote candidates and get
messages to voters.
Informed Delivery
See what mail is coming before it arrives with Informed
Delivery ® notifications by USPS.
U.S. Postal Service links
USPS.com
USPS home
Buy stamps & shop
Print labels with postage
Customer service
Resources for developers
About.USPS.com
About USPS home
Newsroom & alerts
Careers
Forms & publications
Government services
Site index
Postal facts
Postal history
USPS blog
Related sites
Business Customer Gateway
U.S. Postal Inspection Service
Inspector General
Postal Explorer
National Postal Museum
PostalPro
Legal
Terms of use
Privacy policy
FOIA
No FEAR Act/EEO contacts
Fair Chance Act
Accessibility statement
Copyright© 2026 United States Postal Service
Back
to top
Notice
×
You have selected an external resource that is being provided as a
convenience for informational purposes only and does not
constitute an endorsement or an approval by the United States
Postal Service of any products, services or opinions of the
organization. The United States Postal Service bears no
responsibility for the accuracy, legality or content of the
external resource.
Continue
Cancel
Notice
×
This resource is for Election Officials only.
Are you a voter or an Election Official?
I am a voter
I am an Election Official
×
