USPS Statement on Development of U.S. Federal Ballot Mail Portal - Statements - Newsroom - About.usps.com

 Effective Nov. 29, international mail service to Canada is temporarily suspended, due to the strike of the Canadian Union of Postal Workers. Read more.

 Jump to page content

 Who we are

 Postal profile

 Our history

 Postal Facts

 Leadership

 Board of Governors

 Executive leadership

 Leadership organization

 Government Relations

 Contact us

 Current priorities

 Key topics

 Economic impact

 Law Department

 Judicial Officer

 Board of Contract Appeals decisions

 Administrative decisions

 Stamp committee

 Background

 Members

 Selection process

 Selection criteria

 Artwork

 Reproduction

 What we do

 Strategic planning

 Delivering for America

 Archived publications

 Business services

 Licensing

 Rights and permissions

 Suppliers

 Facilities leasing and property management

 Delivery growth management

 Public Key Infrastructure

 Mailer resources

 Auctions

 Government services

 Apply for a passport

 Election Mail

 Election information for voters
-->
 Political Mail

 Social responsibility

 Community activities

 Historic preservation

 Securing the mail

 Sustainability

 Performance

 Financials

 Service performance results

 Household Mail Survey

 Divider

 Newsroom

 News

 National news

 Local news

 Statements

 Testimony and speeches

 Service alerts

 Residential issues

 Business issues

 International issues

 Holidays and events

 Digital Media

 Resources

 Publications

 Manuals

 Handbooks

 Publications

 Kits

 Management instructions

 Notices

 Posters

 Signs and labels

 Find a form

 Applications

 Confirmation services

 Employment

 First-Class Mail, Priority Mail, Priority Mail Express

 International

 Postal Bulletin

 The Eagle magazine

 Careers

 Career opportunities

 Top jobs

 Students and graduates

 Military

 Working at USPS

 Compensation and benefits

 Career development

 How to apply

 Application process

 Exams

 Searching for jobs

 -->
 Legacy website (eCareer) help

 Profile login

 -->

 Click to search

 Search

 Submit

 Who we are

 What we do

 Newsroom

 Resources

 Careers

 Open/close navigation menu

 Overview

 News

 Service alerts

 Holidays & events

 Digital Media

 Statements

 USPS Statement on Development of U.S. Federal Ballot Mail Portal

 Sept. 1, 2026

 We have received Senator Blumenthal's letter and are carefully reviewing the concerns he and the whistleblower have raised. We appreciate the opportunity to address these questions and share additional information about the Postal Service's work to support election officials and voters across the country.

 The United States Postal Service has spent months developing a U.S. Federal Ballot Mail Portal to provide election officials with a simple, secure, and efficient way to share lists of individuals receiving ballots by mail in their respective states. This work has at all times been conducted in a manner consistent with court orders. Importantly, in an order issued by the U.S. District Court this week, the court expressly confirmed that the Postal Service may continue its work to establish the portal and communicate with states regarding design standards on a voluntary basis. Consistent with the temporary restraining order, verification procedures prior to acceptance are not being performed.

 The Postal Service is now finalizing the portal and will soon make it available to election officials who voluntarily wish to familiarize themselves with the platform. USPS will also provide tools, presentations, and other resources to help election officials understand the platform and make informed decisions about whether and how they wish to use it.

 The portal is just one part of a broader, year-round effort by the Postal Service to ensure that election mail and ballots are handled and delivered securely, reliably, and efficiently. USPS regularly works with election officials, mail service providers, and the broader mailing community to provide guidance on election-mail procedures, operational standards, and best practices.

 Regardless of political party or perspective, we share a common goal: ensuring that Americans can have confidence that their election mail will be handled securely and delivered reliably. We welcome thoughtful questions and appropriate oversight, and we are committed to transparency, accountability, and working constructively with election officials, Congress, the courts, and all stakeholders.

 Postal employees take great pride in their responsibility to support the democratic process. We will continue to approach that responsibility with the care, professionalism, and dedication that voters and election officials expect from the United States Postal Service.

 U.S. Postal Service links

 USPS.com

 USPS home

 Buy stamps & shop

 Print labels with postage

 Customer service

 Resources for developers

 About.USPS.com

 About USPS home

 Newsroom & alerts

 Careers

 Forms & publications

 Government services

 Postal facts

 Postal history

 USPS blog

 Related sites

 Business Customer Gateway

 U.S. Postal Inspection Service

 Inspector General

 Postal Explorer

 National Postal Museum

 PostalPro

 Legal

 Terms of use

 Privacy policy

 FOIA

 No FEAR Act/EEO contacts

 Fair Chance Act

 Accessibility statement

 Copyright&copy; 2026 United States Postal Service

 Back

 to top
