 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 DeLauro Statement on House Passage of Continuing Resolution | House Committee on Appropriations 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Skip to main content
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 About 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Ranking Member Rosa L. DeLauro 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Jurisdiction 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 History 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Membership 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Rules 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Subcommittees 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Defense 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Financial Services and General Government 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Homeland Security 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Legislative Branch 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 National Security, Department of State, and Related Programs 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 News 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Press Releases 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Statements 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Appropriators in Print 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Fact Sheets 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Videos 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Events 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Hearings 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Markups 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Public Witness Testimony 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Member Days 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Legislation 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Transparency 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Appropriations Requests 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Fiscal Years 2024 & 2025 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Fiscal Year 2023 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Fiscal Year 2022 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Contact 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Impoundment 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Fact Sheets and Background 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Statements 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 What Ranking Members are Reading 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Letters to the Trump Administration 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Remarks 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Image 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 
 
 News 
 
 
 Press Releases 
 
 
 

 
 
 DeLauro Statement on House Passage of Continuing Resolution 
 September 1, 2026 Press Release WASHINGTON – House Appropriations Committee Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) issued the following statement on the House passage of a continuing resolution funding the government through December 11, 2026.
 “With the passage of this continuing resolution, the government funding deadline has been pushed to December 11 th . I remain committed to reaching bipartisan agreements and passing all twelve full-year funding bills before the expiration of this resolution. 
 “Eleven of the twelve Appropriations bills passed out of the House Appropriations Committee are deeply flawed and do not have the bipartisan support necessary to become law. I look forward to seeing the bills the Senate produces, so we can negotiate and produce full-year funding bills without delay that increase funding for Democratic priorities and reign in the worst abuses of the Trump administration. 
 “Additionally, any final agreement must prevent the proposed White House budget rule which would give control over virtually all federal spending to political appointees in the Trump administration from ever taking effect. There is bipartisan support for preventing this policy from coming to fruition, and I am confident we will be able to find a solution. 
 “We have 101 days until government funding expires. There is no time to waste.” 
 Ranking Member DeLauro’s remarks in support of the continuing resolution can be found here .
 ###
 
 Issues : 
 Subcommittees 119th Congress 
 

 
 News 

 

 
 

 
 
 Press Releases 
 
 
 Statements 
 
 
 Appropriators in Print 
 
 
 Fact Sheets 
 
 
 Videos 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 Appropriations Committee Democrats 

 
 1036 Longworth House Office Building 
 

 Washington , DC 20515 

 Phone (202) 225-3481

 Committee Members 

 
 

 
  

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Image 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 Majority Website 
 
 
 Copyright 
 
 
 Privacy 
 
 
 House.gov 
 
 
 Accessibility 
 
 
 RSS 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 Back to top 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
