

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 FEC | Election and voting information 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 Your web browser is not supported 
 This site uses features that are not supported by this browser. For a better experience, please switch to a modern browser. 
 
 

 

 

 
 skip navigation 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Here's how you know 
 
 An official website of the United States government 
 Here's how you know 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Official websites use .gov 
 
 A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secure .gov websites use HTTPS 
 
 A lock ( Lock A locked padlock ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Federal Election Commission | United States of America 
 
 Calendar 
 Glossary 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Menu 
 
 
 Menu 
 
 
 Home 
 
 
 
 
 
 Campaign finance data 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 All data 
 Raising 
 Spending 
 Loans and debts 
 Filings and reports 
 Candidates 
 Committees 
 Bulk data 
 Campaign finance statistics 
 
 
 
 
 Find elections. Search by state or ZIP code 
 
 
 Look up contributions from specific individuals 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Help for candidates and committees 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 All compliance resources 
 Guides 
 Forms 
 Dates and deadlines 
 Trainings 
 
 
 
 
 Learn about electronic filing 
 
 
 Find and contact your committee's analyst 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Legal resources 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 All legal resources 
 Advisory opinions 
 Enforcement 
 Statutes 
 Legislation 
 Regulations and rulemakings
 
 Court cases 
 Policy and other guidance 
 
 
 
 
 Search across legal resources 
 
 
 Search guidance documents 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 About 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 All about the FEC 
 News and announcements 
 Commission meetings 
 Mission and history 
 Leadership and structure 
 Reports about the FEC 
 Careers 
 Working with the FEC 
 Contact 
 
 
 
 
 Introduction to campaign finance and elections 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 Federal Election Commission | United States of America 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 Home 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 › 
 Introduction to campaign finance and elections 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 › 
 Election results and voting information 
 
 
 

 
 
 Election results and voting information 
 
 
 
 
 The Federal Election Commission (FEC) has compiled the following information about elections and voting. The FEC administers federal campaign finance laws; however, it has no jurisdiction over the laws relating to voting, voter fraud and intimidation, election results or the Electoral College . Elections are primarily governed by state law and administered at the state and local level. 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Election results 
 
 
 
 Election dates 
 
 
 
 Placing candidates on the ballot 
 
 
 
 Voter resources 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 Election results 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Election results are not available immediately from the FEC. Instead, state election offices are responsible for certifying results. Please visit your state election office website for election results information. Contact information for each state election office can be found here, state election offices . As a public service, the FEC compiles election results from past federal elections, as officially reported by individual state or territory election offices. Official 2024 Presidential General Election Results, compiled from state election offices ( PDF) ( Excel ) The FEC also publishes Federal Elections , a biennial compilation of official, certified federal election results. These publications include primary, runoff and general election results for the Senate, the House of Representatives and (when applicable) the President. 2022 2020 2018 2016 2014 2012 2010 2008 2006 2004 2002 2000 1998 1996 1994 1992 1990 1988 1986 1984 1982 Sign-up to receive an email alert when election results are posted. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 For assistance, contact the Public Records Office 

 
 
 
 
 
 202-694-1120 or 1-800-424-9530 (option 2) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 pubrec@fec.gov 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Electoral College The National Archives and Records Administration is the federal agency responsible for coordinating certain functions of the Electoral College between the States and Congress in regard to the Electoral College vote for President. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 The Electoral College | National Archives 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 Election dates 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Tuesday, November 3, 2026 , is the next regularly scheduled federal General Election date. The Commission’s Election Dates page has information on Congressional and Presidential primary/convention dates, well as runoff dates in states that hold them. Each state is responsible for establishing their own primary and/or runoff dates. Dates listed for scheduled future elections are tentative and subject to change. 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 Placing candidates on the ballot 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Ballot access is controlled by each state according to state law, even for federal elections. 2024 Presidential Candidates on the General Election Ballots, compiled from state election offices ( PDF ) 2024 Congressional Candidates on the General Election Ballots, compiled from state election offices ( Excel ) ( PDF ) The FEC publishes a Combined Federal/State Disclosure and Election Directory . It provides contact information and links to the elections offices of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, all of which conduct federal elections. State laws and procedures govern how candidates come to appear on election ballots. For information, individuals should contact the chief election official in their state. Presidential candidates should contact the state offices in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and U.S. territories for information regarding appearing on each respective state primary and/or general election ballot. The FEC also provides a list of state election offices for information about candidates on state ballots and election results. 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 Voter resources 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 State law governs voter registration and polling place accessibility. The best resource for questions about election administration, including voter registration and polling locations and hours, is your state or local election office. Voting locations and hours Check with your state or local election office to find out about voting locations and hours. Contact information for each state election office can be found here, state election offices . Vote.gov and the U.S. Election Assistance Commission also provide election information. U.S. Election Assistance Commission The U.S. Election Assistance Commission (EAC) is a federal government agency that serves as a national clearinghouse of information about election administration. It offers numerous resources for assisting voters. U.S. Election Assistance Commission: 866-747-1471 (toll free) 301-563-3919 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 U.S. Election Assistance Commission 

 
 
 
 
 
 Military and overseas citizens The Federal Voting Assistance Program provides voting assistance for Service members, their families and overseas citizens. Report suspected voter or election fraud If you want to report voter intimidation, voter fraud, please contact your state election office . The Voting Section of the Civil Rights Division of the U.S. Department of Justice enforces the civil provisions of the federal laws that protect the right to vote, including the Voting Rights Act , Voting Accessibility for the Elderly and Handicapped Act , the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act , the National Voter Registration Act , the Help America Vote Act and the Civil Rights Acts . If you want to report a possible violation of federal voting laws, please fill out the U.S. Department of Justice’s Election Complaint Report . Voting Section of the U.S. Department of Justice: 800-253-3931 202-307-2767 voting.section@usdoj.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 If you believe that a federal election has been administered fraudulently, contact the nearest branch of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) . 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 This information is not intended to replace the law or to change its meaning, nor does this information create or confer any rights for or on any person or bind the Federal Election Commission or the public. 
 The reader is encouraged also to consult the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended (52 U.S.C. 30101 et seq.), Commission regulations (Title 11 of the Code of Federal Regulations), Commission advisory opinions and applicable court decisions. 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 About 
 
 
 Careers 
 
 
 Press 
 
 
 Contact 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 Privacy and security policy 
 
 
 Plain language 
 
 
 Accessibility statement 
 
 
 Strategy, budget and performance 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 No FEAR Act 
 
 
 Open government 
 
 
 USA.gov 
 
 
 Inspector General 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 FOIA 
 
 
 OpenFEC API 
 
 
 GitHub repository 
 
 
 Release notes 
 
 
 FEC.gov status 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Federal Election Commission 
 
 
 
 
 
 The FEC's Twitter page 
 
 
 
 
 The FEC's YouTube page 
 
 
 
 
 Sign up for FECMail 
 
 
 
 This information is produced and disseminated at U.S. taxpayer expense. 
 
 
 

 
 Hide glossary 
 
 Glossary 
 Search terms 
 
 Examples: receipt; Hybrid PAC 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
