DIVISION A – CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2027
Section-by-Section for Division A was compiled by the Senate Appropriations Committee staff.
Sections 101-115 are standard provisions for a CR.
Sec. 101. Extension of Funding.
This section continues the funding levels and authorities from the fiscal year 2026
appropriations Acts, with some changes.
Sec. 102. DoD New Start Prohibition.
This section prevents the Department of Defense from using funds provided by the CR to
start new programs, enter multiyear contracts, or increase production rates unless
otherwise specified by the CR.
Sec. 103. Terms and Conditions.
This section states that funds provided by the CR are subject to the same authorities and
conditions as funds provided by the fiscal year 2026 appropriations Acts.
Sec. 104. Prevention of New Starts.
This section prevents funds appropriated by the CR from being used to carry out
programs or activities for which funding and authority was not available in the fiscal year
2026 appropriations Acts.
Sec. 105. Obligations Under a CR.
This section is a technical budget provision that allows agencies to charge the CR for
liabilities incurred under the CR, if the full-year appropriations Acts do not make funds
available to cover them.
Sec. 106. Expiration of the CR.
This section sets the expiration date of the CR. It allows for funding to continue until the
earlier of December 11, 2026, or the enactment of an applicable fiscal year 2027 full-year
appropriations Act, which either does or does not include funds for a particular program
or activity.
Sec. 107. CR Spending Charges against Full-Year Appropriations.
This section states that any spending under a CR will be charged to the relevant full-year
appropriations Act when enacted.
Sec. 108. Apportionments under a CR.

1

This section exempts funds provided by the CR from the normal apportionment timing,
submission, and approval requirements. This is needed because of the short-term nature
of the CR.
Sec. 109. Limitation on Grant Spending.
This section prohibits agencies from spending money on grant programs too quickly
during the CR.
Sec. 110. Limited Spending.
This section directs that agencies should spend money in the most limited way possible
during the CR.
Sec. 111. Mandatory Programs.
This section continues entitlements and mandatory programs at the rate necessary to
maintain program operations consistent with law.
Sec. 112. Standard Furlough Avoidance.
This section allows for funds to be apportioned to agencies at a rate that would prevent
the furlough of any employee during the CR.
Sec. 113. National Security Waivers.
This section is required to provide authority to continue certain foreign affairs and
intelligence activities during the CR, until specific authorization for such activities is
provided.
Sec. 114. Fund Designations.
This section redesignates funds for disaster relief and emergency that were previously
appropriated.
Sec. 115. Rescission of Prior Year Funds.
This section requires the OMB to submit a report on all rescissions and cancellations that
continue under the CR and describes how they are calculated.
Sec. 116. Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund Program.
This section provides funding at a rate of operations necessary to fully meet the demand
for USDA’s Direct and Guaranteed Farm Ownership loans.
Sec. 117. Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and
Children (WIC).

2

This section provides USDA with funding at a rate necessary to maintain participation in
the WIC program.
Sec. 118. Commodity Supplemental Food Program.
This section provides flexibility to the Department of Agriculture to spend at a rate of
operations needed for the Commodity Supplemental Food Program to maintain the
current caseload.
Sec. 119. Livestock Mandatory Reporting Act Extension.
This section extends the Livestock Mandatory Reporting Act of 1999 for the duration of
the CR.
Sec. 120. Bureau of the Census—Periodic Censuses and Programs.
This section allows amounts made available for the Bureau of the Census to be
apportioned at a rate necessary to prepare for the 2030 Decennial Census.
Sec. 121. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration—Procurement,
Acquisition and Construction.
This section allows amounts made available for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration to be apportioned at a rate a necessary to support the launch schedule of
weather satellite systems.
Sec. 122. Department of Justice—Legal Activities.
This section allows amounts made available for the Department of Justice to be
apportioned at a rate necessary to support the litigating divisions.
Sec. 123. Department of Justice—United States Marshals Service.
This section allows amounts made available for the United States Marshals Service to be
apportioned at a rate necessary to maintain Federal judicial security and protective
operation programs.
Sec. 124. Department of Justice—Federal Bureau of Investigation.
This section allows amounts made available for the Federal Bureau of Investigation to be
apportioned at a rate necessary to prepare for the 2028 Olympic Games and to maintain
National Security Systems.
Sec. 125. Department of Commerce—National Telecommunications and
Information Administration.
This section allows for use of existing funds for Middle Mile deployment, as originally
provided in the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act.
3

Sec. 126. Shipbuilding Cost-to-Complete Authority.
This section provides the Department of Defense with authority to obligate funding at a
rate for operations necessary to support Navy shipbuilding to complete ships currently
under construction.
Sec. 127. National Security Systems.
This section provides the Department of Defense with funding at a rate for operations
necessary to support the efforts of National Security Systems sought by the
Administration.
Sec. 128. Maritime Administration (MARAD) Reimbursement Authority.
This section allows the Navy to reimburse the Department of Transportation’s Maritime
Administration during the period covered.
Sec. 129. Calfed Bay-Delta Program.
This section increases the authorization ceiling for ongoing Bureau of Reclamation
authority, to allow Reclamation to spend previously appropriated funding for program
management and oversight.
Sec. 130. NNSA Construction Project Continuation and Studies and Assessments.
This section allows NNSA to continue work on existing projects and studies related to
national security.
Sec. 131. Waste Isolation Pilot Program Hoisting Capability Project.
This section enables Defense Environmental Management to fund critical aspects of the
WIPP safety project.
Sec. 132. District of Columbia Local Funds.
This section authorizes the District of Columbia to spend its local funds in accordance
with the rates provided for in the Fiscal Year 2027 Local Budget Act of 2026.
Sec. 133. Small Business Loan Programs.
This section permits amounts made available for the Small Business Administration’s
Business Loans Program Account to be apportioned at a rate for operations necessary to
accommodate increased demand across its loan programs.
Sec. 134. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Whistleblower Authority.
This section extends the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s whistleblower
program for the duration of the CR.
4

Sec. 135. Department of the Treasury G7 Expenses.
This section provides funding for the Department of the Treasury to host the 2027 G7
Financial Summit.
Sec. 136. Political Pay Freeze.
This section continues the pay freeze for certain senior political employees.
Sec. 137. Disaster Relief Fund.
This section permits amounts made available to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency’s Disaster Relief Fund to be apportioned at a rate necessary to carry out response
and recovery activities under the Stafford Act.
Sec. 138. Reimbursement of Screening Services.
This section extends the authorization for TSA’s reimbursable screening services for the
duration of the CR.
Sec. 139. National Flood Insurance Plan.
This section extends the authorization for the National Flood Insurance Plan for the
duration of the CR.
Sec. 140. Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (ONHIR).
This section continues activities and functions of ONHIR at the Department of the
Interior.
Sec. 141. Wildfire Management.
This section authorizes amounts made available for Wildland Fire Management and the
Wildfire Suppression Operations Reserve Fund at the Departments of Agriculture and
Interior to be apportioned at a rate necessary to continue to fight wildfires.
Sec. 142. Firefighter Pay Cap Waiver.
This section waives the pay cap limitation for wildland fire personnel.
Sec. 143. Tribal Health.
This section provides additional funding to support staffing and operating facilities for
tribal health.
Sec. 144. Member Pay Freeze.
This section continues the pay freeze for Members of Congress for the duration of the
CR.
5

Section 145. Member Death Gratuity.
This section provides member death gratuities to the families of the two Members of
Congress who have died in office.
Sec. 146. Medical Education Training Complex.
This section permits the Army and Navy to carry out construction for housing at the
Medical Education Training Complex at Joint Base San Antonio, Texas, as requested by
the Administration.
Sec. 147. Essential Air Service.
This section allows for the continued operation of the Essential Air Service Program
through the duration of the CR.
Sec. 148. Discontinuation of Repurposed Funds.
This section prevents the continuation of the one-time repurposing of certain IIJA funds.
Sec. 149. Capital Investment Grant Program.
This section extends the disbursement authority of certain Capital Investment Grants
program funds.
Sec. 150. Highway Infrastructure Program Grants.
This section extends the period of availability of certain expiring highway funds through
September 30, 2027.
Sec. 151. Aviation Research Funding.
This section extends the period of availability of certain expiring aviation research funds
through September 30, 2027.
Sec. 152. Choice Neighborhoods Initiative Program.
This section extends the disbursement authority of certain Choice Neighborhood
Initiative grant program funds.
Sec. 153. Housing Choice Voucher Flexibility and Technical Edits.
This section allows HUD to repurpose carryover funds within the Housing Choice
Voucher Program to fully-fund renewals of existing rental assistance and makes other
technical edits, as requested by the Administration.
Sec. 154. Homeless Assistance Grants Program.
This section extends the period of availability of certain expiring homeless assistance
grants through September 30, 2027.
6

Sec. 155. Housing Funding.
This section extends the period of availability of certain expiring housing funds.
Sec. 156. Flexible Subsidy Loan Program.
This section makes technical edits to the Flex Subsidy Loan Program, as enacted in the
Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations
Act, 2026.
Sec. 157. Regulation for Federal Financial Assistance
This section retains existing guidance for federal financial assistance through December
11, 2026.

7

Section-by-Section for Division B and remaining divisions was compiled by the staff of relevant
authorizing committees.

DIVISION B – AUTHORIZING EXTENSIONS, 2027
Sec. 2001. United States Grain Standards Act Extension. This section extends the U.S.
Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) authority for developing and maintaining grain standards,
conducting supervisory activities, and charging fees for supervision of inspections and weighing.
This section also extends authority for limiting USDA’s administrative and supervisory cost cap
to 30% and extends authority for the Grain Inspection Advisory Committee to meet.
Sec. 2002. Agriculture Conservation Experienced Services Program. This section extends
the authorization for the Forest Service to participate in the Agriculture Conservation
Experienced Services program for the duration of the CR.
Sec. 2003. Food for Peace. This section extends authorization for entering into agreements for
the purposes of providing assistance through the Food for Peace program.
Sec. 2004. Defense Production Act Extension. This section extends the authorization of the
Defense Production Act for the duration of the CR.
Sec. 2005. TSCA Fees. This section extends the Environmental Protection Agency’s authority to
collect fees pursuant to section 26(b) of the Toxic Substances Control Act for the duration of the
CR.
Sec. 2006. Disaster Relief for the Northern Mariana Islands. This section provides $21.4
million in temporary disaster relief funding to the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
Islands’ Medicaid program in response to Super Typhoon Sinlaku and Super Typhoon Bavi.
Sec. 2007. Medicare Improvement Fund. This section reduces the amount of funding in the
Medicare Improvement Fund from $2.062 billion to $2.041 billion.
Sec. 2008. Extension of African Growth and Opportunity Act. This section extends the
African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) by two years through December 31, 2028.
Sec. 2009. Extension of Haiti Economic Lift Program. This section extends the Haitian
Hemispheric Opportunity through Partnership Encouragement Act (HOPE) and Haiti Economic
Lift Program Act (HELP) programs by two years through December 31, 2028.
Sec. 2010. Extension of Customs User Fees. This section extends custom user fees by three
months through March 31, 2032, to offset the two-year extensions of AGOA and Haiti
HOPE/HELP.
8

Sec. 2011. Cybersecurity Information Sharing Extension. This section extends the
authorization of certain liability protections to private sector entities that share cyber incident
information with federal partners for the duration of the CR.
Sec. 2012. National Cybersecurity Protection System. This section extends the authorization
for the use of public-private partnerships to strengthen cyber intrusion detection capabilities and
protect federal networks for the duration of the CR.
Sec. 2013. Joint Task Forces. This section extends the Secretary of Homeland Security’s
existing authority to establish and operate Joint Task Forces to coordinate security efforts for the
duration of the CR.
Sec. 2014. Technology Modernization Fund and Board. This section extends for the duration
of the CR the Technology Modernization Fund and Board to allow continued investment of
existing funds to update and integrate critical technology systems across government, leading to
efficiencies and savings that are reinvested back into the fund.
Sec. 2015. United States Patent and Trademark Office Fee Setting Authority. This section
extends the authority of the PTO director to set fees through the date of the CR.
Sec. 2016. USCIRF Extension. The U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom
(USCIRF) is an independent federal commission tasked with monitoring international religious
freedom conditions, reviewing U.S. government policy, and making policy
recommendations. This provision reauthorizes the USCIRF for the length of the CR.
Sec. 2017. Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI). The WHTI is a U.S. border
security rule requiring all travelers, including U.S. citizens, to present a valid passport or other
secure, WHTI-compliant document when entering or re-entering the United States from Canada,
Mexico, the Caribbean, and Bermuda. This provision extends the Department of State’s authority
to collect passport fees in support of the WHTI through the length of CR. Absent an extension,
the Department will lose authority to collect WHTI revenues, anticipated to be over $565 million
in FY27, with negative impacts on passport and consular services.
Sec. 2018. Budgetary Effects. This section provides standard, technical budgetary effects
provisions for this Act.
Sec. 2019. Section 781 Extension. This section extends the implementation date of certain
pieces of the regulatory framework from Section 781 of Public Law 119-37 for the duration of
the CR.

DIVISION C – SURFACE TRANSPORTATION EXTENSION ACT OF 2026
9

Sec. 3001. Short Title. This section provides that this division may be cited as the “Surface
Transportation Extension Act of 2026”.
Sec. 3002. Definitions. This section establishes definitions for certain terms used within this
division.
Title I – Surface Transportation Programs
Sec. 3101. Extension of Federal Surface Transportation Programs. This section provides for
a clean extension of the federal surface transportation programs until December 11, 2026. These
programs are carried out by certain modal administrations at the U.S. Department of
Transportation and the Office of the Secretary of Transportation.
Sec. 3102. Appalachian Regional Commission. This section provides for a clean extension of
the authorities and programs of the Appalachian Regional Commission until December 11, 2026.
Sec. 3103. Sport Fishing. This section provides for a clean extension of Dingell-Johnson Sport
Fish Restoration Act until December 11, 2026.
Sec. 3104. Extension of Certain Funding. This section extends the period of availability for
previously authorized contract authority for certain programs administered by the Federal
Highway Administration.
Title II – Trust Funds
Sec. 3201. Extension of the Expenditure Authority of Highway Trust Fund, Sport Fish
Restoration and Boating Trust Fund, and Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund.
This section provides an extension of the expenditure authority for certain trust funds until
December 12, 2026.

DIVISION D– PARTIAL-YEAR VA EXTENDERS ACT OF 2026
TITLE I – HEALTH CARE
Sec 4101. Extension of authority for collection of copayments for hospital care and nursing
home care. This section would extend VA’s authority to collect copayments for inpatient hospital
and nursing home care from September 30, 2026, to December 11, 2026.
Sec. 4102. Extension of requirement to provide nursing home care to certain veterans with
service-connected disabilities. This section would extend VA’s authority to provide nursing home
care to veterans with a service- connected disability rated at 70 percent or more or who require
10

nursing home care for their service- connected disability from September 30, 2026, to December
11, 2026.
Sec. 4103. Extension of funding for expansion of rural access network for growth
enhancement program of the Department of Veterans Affairs. This section would extend VA’s
authority to establish and maintain three new centers as part of the Rural Access Network for
Growth Enhancement (RANGE) program from fiscal year 2026 to December 11, 2026.
Sec. 4104. Extension of Staff Sergeant Parker Gordon Fox Suicide Prevention Grant
Program. This section would extend financial assistance to certain entities to provide or
coordinate the provision of suicide prevention services for eligible individuals and their families
through the Staff Sergeant Parker Gordon Fox Suicide Prevention Grant Program from September
30, 2026, until December 11, 2026.
Sec. 4105. Extension of funding for grants or contracts to provide mental health support to
family caregivers of veterans. This section would extend VA’s authority to provide grants or
contracts to coordinate and enhance mental health support, counseling, or treatment to family
caregivers of veterans participating in the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family
Caregivers (PCAFC) from September 30, 2026, to December 11, 2026.
Sec. 4106. Extension of requirement for reimbursement for ambulance cost for care for
certain rural veterans. This section would extend VA’s authority to reimburse certain veterans
for the cost of ambulance, including air ambulance, transportation from certain locations to VA
or non-VA facilities, or the nearest hospital that can meet the needs of the veteran from September
30, 2026 to December 11, 2026.
Sec. 4107. Extension of incentive program for sharing of health care resources of
Department of Veterans Affairs and Department of Defense. This section would extend a
requirement for the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense to fund and
support agreements between VA and DoD facilities to share health care resources and improve
access to care for veterans and military beneficiaries from September 30, 2026, until December
11, 2026.

TITLE II – BENEFITS
Sec. 4201. Extension of authority to maintain regional office in Republic of Philippines.
This section would extend VA’s authority to maintain and continue operations of a regional VA
office in the Republic of the Philippines, until December 11, 2026.

11

Sec. 4202. Extension of requirement relating to restoration of entitlement to educational
assistance in cases of closure or disapproval of educational institutions. This section would
extend a requirement for the Department to protect student veterans who have used their VA
education benefits at schools that have lost their accreditation or have fallen out of compliance
with statute or regulations from September 30, 2026, until December 11, 2026.

TITLE III – HOUSING
Sec. 4301. Extension of authorization of appropriations for homeless women veterans and
homeless veterans with children reintegration grant program. This section would extend
authorizations to ensure annual funding for supportive services like job training, counseling,
placement, and child care for homeless women veterans and veterans with children from fiscal
year 2026 to December 11, 2026.
Sec. 4302. Extension of authority for treatment and rehabilitation for seriously mentally ill
and homeless veterans. This section would extend VA’s authority to provide services – directly
or in partnership with other entities - to veterans with serious mental illness and to homeless
veterans as well as VA’s authority to operate therapeutic transitional housing programs from
September 30, 2026, until December 11, 2026.
Sec. 4303. Extension of authority for housing assistance for homeless veterans. This section
would extend VA’s authority to assist homeless veterans and their families in acquiring shelter or
permanent housing from September 30, 2026, until December 11, 2026.
Sec. 4304. Extension of funding for financial assistance for supportive services for very lowincome veteran families in permanent housing. This section would extend VA’s authority and
make available $130,191,781 to fund the Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF)
program from October 1, 2026, through December 11, 2026.
Sec. 4305. Extension of funding for grant program for homeless veterans with special
needs. This section would extend VA’s authority to award grants to organizations that provide
services to homeless veterans with special needs from fiscal year 2026 to December 11, 2026.
Sec. 4306. Extension of authority for advisory committee on homeless veterans. This section
would extend VA’s authority to establish an advisory committee to provide consult to VA on
policies and programs to reduce veteran homelessness and improve services to homeless veterans
from September 30, 2026, to December 11, 2026.

12

Sec. 4307. Extension of authority to provide assistance for specially adapted housing for
disabled veterans residing temporarily in housing owned by a family member. This section
would extend VA’s authority to provide Temporary Residence Adaptation (TRA) grants to help
eligible veterans with service-connected disabilities adapt a temporary residence to meet their
accessibility needs from September 30, 2026, until December 11, 2026.
Sec. 4308. Extension of authority for specially adapted housing assistive technology grant
program. This section would extend the Specially Adapted Housing Assistive Technology Grant
Program to encourage the development of new assistive technologies for specially adapted
housing for veterans from September 30, 2026, until December 11, 2026.

TITLE IV – OTHER MATTERS
Sec. 4401. Extension of authority for Secretary of Veterans Affairs to transport individuals
to and from facilities of Department of Veterans Affairs. This section would extend VA’s
authority to transport any person to or from a Department facility or other place in connection
with vocational rehabilitation, counseling, or for the purpose of examination, treatment, or care
from September 30, 2026, until December 11, 2026.
Sec. 4402. Extension of subpoena authority of Inspector General of Department of Veterans
Affairs. This section would extend the VA Inspector General’s testimonial subpoena authority
from September 30, 2026, until December 11, 2026.
Sec. 4403. Extension of funding for adaptive sports programs for disabled veterans and
members of the Armed Forces. This section would extend authorizations to ensure annual
funding for the Adaptive Sports Grant Program to provide opportunities for disabled veterans
and disabled members of the Armed Forces from September 30, 2026, until December 11, 2026.
Sec. 4404. Extension of authority for advisory committee on minority veterans. This section
would extend VA’s authority to establish an advisory committee on minority veterans to consult
and make recommendations on improving VA services and programs for minority veterans from
September 30, 2026, until December 11, 2026.
Sec. 4405. Extension of authority relating to plot allowances. This section would extend VA’s
authority to provide burial, funeral, transportation, and plot or interment allowances for certain
eligible veterans who pass away at a non-VA facility while receiving hospice care from
September 30, 2026, to December 11, 2026.
Sec. 4406. Extension of authority relating to vendee loan program. This section would
extend the temporary modification to VA’s authority for financing the purchase of real property
13

acquired through the VA loan guaranty program from September 30, 2026, until December 11,
2026.
Sec. 4407. Extension of authority for transfer of real property. This section would extend
VA’s authority to transfer federally held real property, along with any associated structures or
equipment, to other U.S. government entities, states, public or private organizations, or Indian
tribes, provided that fair market value compensation is received from September 30, 2026, until
December 11, 2026.

14

