 
 
 
 
 
 

 
	
 House Republicans Prevent Another Democrat Shutdown - Speaker of the House Mike Johnson 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Meet Mike Johnson 
 7 Core Principles of Conservatism 
 Priorities 
 
 Energy Dominance 
 Fiscal Responsibility 
 National Security 
 Protecting Our Cities 
 Securing Our Border 
 Strong Families 
 
 
 Press Releases 
 Working Families Tax Cuts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Follow Follow Follow Follow Follow 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 House Republicans Prevent Another Democrat Shutdown
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Follow Follow Follow Follow 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sep 1, 2026 | Fiscal Responsibility , Press Releases 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WASHINGTON  — Today, Speaker Johnson delivered remarks to the media after the House passed a continuing resolution to fund the government until December and avoid yet another costly Democrat government shutdown. Speaker Johnson also addressed House Republicans’ proposed constitutional amendment to ensure the U.S. Supreme Court remains composed of only nine justices. 

 “Thanks to the House Republicans’ leadership and the foresight back in July, we began the necessary processes to ensure that the government would not be shut down,”  Speaker Johnson said . “We are not going to have our troops in harm’s way without getting paychecks, we’re not going to have the Coast Guard, TSA, other essential functions of the government shut down, as the Democrats in Congress engineered already three times in this Congress.” 

 

 Watch Speaker Johnson’s remarks  here . 

 Below are Speaker Johnson’s remarks as delivered: 

 We just did some important things here on the floor. Of course we passed the CR in front of the government. Thanks to the House Republicans’ leadership and the foresight back in July, we began the necessary processes to ensure that the government would not be shut down. We are not going to have our troops in harm’s way without getting paychecks. We’re not going to have the Coast Guard, TSA, other essential functions of the government shut down, as the Democrats in Congress engineered already three times in this Congress. They engineered the longest shutdown in U.S. history and then beat their own record in this Congress. For about 120 calendar days, they shut the government down. 

We’re not going to do that. So, House Republicans are in charge here and we’re continuing to do the grown-up thing and make sure we get the job done. And we’re happy that we just passed that continuing resolution to fund the government through early December. And we will continue through the process after the election. I wish we could get everybody to work faster and sooner if that’s where we are. But there will be no government shutdown. You can thank Republicans for our leadership in getting that done. We will continue now. The rule has passed. Many of you thought that would not happen today, but we passed the rule to continue business this week. Republicans are here to work. We have a lot more left to do. We’re going to keep demonstrating to the American people every day that their priorities are our priorities. 

We have very important legislation tomorrow. I’ll highlight one of those. We are going to bring a constitutional amendment. It is a bill to amend the U.S. Constitution to ensure that the U.S. Supreme Court remains composed of only nine justices. We will keep the nine. Now you’ve heard the Democrat Socialists of America, the communists, socialists and Democrat Party who are taking the party over. They published their platform. You know, they want to abolish the border. They want to abolish prisons, defund police. One of their objectives among all the crazy things is they want to pack the U.S. Supreme Court. We’re going to make sure that doesn’t happen. So, we’re going to put that bill on the floor tomorrow on suspension because it requires a two-thirds vote of both chambers of Congress to amend the Constitution and we will have them put their money where their mouth is. 

There’s a couple of Democrats here in the House who have suggested that they’re not on board with the Democrat Socialists of America, just a few. They’re going to get a chance to show us tomorrow. We’re going to see where they are on packing the Supreme Court. I think it’s a critically important thing for the country. Nine justices has worked well. My background’s in constitutional law and litigation. We know that the nine justices of the Supreme Court has been the model that has served this country for many, many years, and it does not need to change. If we go down the road of packing the Supreme Court, it turns into a political palooza and it would not serve the country. So, we look forward to that. We will continue to continue the agenda here and doing our work. 

We are putting points on the board for hardworking families, while Democrats are playing politics.

 ###

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Latest News
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 House Democrats’ Midterm Message: Embrace Radical Socialism, Pack the Supreme Court  
 

 
 Sep 2, 2026 
 WASHINGTON — This week, after funding the federal government and preventing another Democrat shutdown, House...

 
 
 
 

 
 
 Speaker Johnson: From Alaska to the Rio Grande Valley, the American People Reject Democrats’ Embrace of Socialism 
 

 
 Sep 1, 2026 
 "We are not going down that road,” Speaker Johnson said. WASHINGTON — This morning, at the weekly House...

 
 
 
 

 
 
 ICYMI: Speaker Johnson Visits Manufacturing Facility to Discuss Historic Success of the Working Families Tax Cuts 
 

 
 Aug 6, 2026 
 Johnson joined Secretary Bessent, Rep. Ciscomani for a factory tour and roundtable at a PepsiCo-Frito Lay...

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Read More News 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Follow Me for the Latest Updates 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Follow Follow Follow Follow 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Contact Info
 
 
 
 
 
 
 202-225-4000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 H-232, The Capitol 
 Washington, D.C. 20515 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Resources
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Louisiana’s 4th District 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 House Republicans 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 House GOP Jobs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ©2024 U.S. House of Representatives. All Rights Reserved.  |  Privacy Policy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
