While opening for Ed Sheeran at MetLife Stadium, Macklemore chanted “Free Palestine,” accused Israel of “genocide” and “apartheid,” and used the stage—and the massive screens behind him—to promote a… | American Jewish Committee (AJC)

While opening for Ed Sheeran at MetLife Stadium, Macklemore chanted “Free Palestine,” accused Israel of “genocide” and “apartheid,” and used the stage—and the massive screens behind him—to promote a deeply one-sided and uninformed narrative about the Israel-Gaza conflict. Concertgoers bought tickets to hear music, not to be subjected to political propaganda that erases the complexity of this conflict and presents Israel as the sole cause of the region’s suffering. Following reports from attendees at the first show, AJC New Jersey immediately contacted the Meadowlands to express our community’s outrage. The stadium administration raised these concerns directly with the tour and artists, and offered refunds to ticket holders before the second show who chose not to attend. We appreciate artists like P!nk who have spoken out against what happened at the concert and recognized that fans deserved better. Music should bring people together and not turn Jewish and Israeli concertgoers into targets.
Artists and public figures have enormous influence over what gets normalized in culture. AJC’s Combating Antisemitism Playbook offers practical guidance for cultural and entertainment leaders on understanding, responding to, and preventing antisemitism, and using their platforms to challenge hate rather than amplify it. AJC.org/playbook/entertainment
As someone who advocates for inclusion and belonging, and who is part of the Jewish community, I know how powerful it is to feel seen—and how painful it is when you feel targeted or excluded. That’s why I want to commend P!nk for using her platform to speak up. Seeing the backlash she received, particularly because she is Jewish, makes her decision to do so even more courageous. Artists have enormous influence. They should use their platforms, but also recognise the impact their words can have on people sitting in the audience—including Jewish concertgoers who may suddenly feel that their identity and community are being singled out. We need more courage, empathy and nuance—not less.
"To all of my Jewish brothers and sisters: Criticism of Israel, criticism of apartheid, being against genocide in no way is criticism of you. My message is for peace, love and for all human beings to be treated with dignity, respect and equality." - Macklemore
Pink make it good. She rubbed it in too