Live-fly exercise advances maneuver warfare concepts, contested logistics and coalition and commercial integration across space domain > United States Space Command > Article Display

COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo.  –
U.S. Space Command conducted Apollo Maneuvers 2026, its inaugural live-fly exercise designed to demonstrate dynamic on-orbit operations, validate contested logistics, and advance collective space maneuver doctrine.
Inspired in part by the historic Louisiana Maneuvers of 1941, Apollo Maneuvers 2026 gave U.S. Space Command the opportunity to test concepts, identify requirements, and strengthen readiness for future operations in a contested space environment.
Conducted during the first week of September, the exercise tested and refined concepts that enable effective space operations during competition and conflict. U.S. Space Command focused the exercise on three primary tasks: conducting coordinated maneuvers across low Earth orbit (LEO), medium Earth orbit (MEO), and geosynchronous orbit (GEO); refining maneuver warfare concepts to improve future operational planning; and integrating participating nations from Multinational Force-Operation OLYMPIC DEFENDER.
The live-fly event demonstrated progress in sustained space maneuver and dynamic space operations while reinforcing a commitment to a safe, stable, and secure space domain.
“Operating from a static, predictable orbit leaves our assets fighting from an easily targeted, fixed position,” said Gen. Stephen Whiting, commander of U.S. Space Command and the Multinational Force-Operation OLYMPIC DEFENDER. “To perform, survive, and gain advantage in the space domain, we need maneuverability and survivability in our capabilities.”
The exercise also advanced the command’s work on contested logistics and satellite servicing. Data collected during Apollo Maneuvers 2026 will help SPACECOM inform doctrine, operational plans, and future logistics and servicing requirements tied to sustained maneuver and dynamic on-orbit operations.
“Exercises such as Apollo Maneuvers allow us to demonstrate the requirements and capabilities needed to maneuver for advantage within the space domain,” Whiting said. “Executing coordinated activities across multiple orbits through live-fly elements enables us to reinforce the warfighting advantage of our partnerships by refining tactics, examining contested logistics, and developing satellite servicing requirements.”
Apollo Maneuvers 2026 also integrated Multinational Force-Operation OLYMPIC DEFENDER participating nations and the Commercial Integration Cell, operating from the Combined Space Operations Center, an operations center assigned to Space Forces-Space at Vandenberg Space Force Base, California. The integration of allied, partner and commercial capabilities strengthens joint and combined operations and enabled the validation of combined tactics, techniques and procedures.
Apollo Maneuvers 2026 underscored U.S. Space Command’s commitment to building a more agile, resilient, and integrated space warfighting posture. By combining live-fly maneuver, contested logistics experimentation, and commercial and multinational participation, the exercise helped validate concepts that will inform future doctrine, improve interoperability, and strengthen the ability of the United States and its allies to operate effectively in an increasingly contested domain.