Budget request directs record $338.8 billion to Air Force and Space Force to meet “challenges of today and tomorrow” > United States Space Force > Article Display

Budget request directs record $338.8 billion to Air Force and Space Force to meet “challenges of today and tomorrow” Published April 21, 2026 Secretary of the Air Force Public Affairs ARLINGTON, Va. (AFNS) -- The Department of the Air Force unveiled a $338.8 billion budget proposal, April 21, a significant boost in funding designed to sharpen readiness, continue modernizing the fleet and underwrite deterrence while ensuring that any threat to national security can be met and, if necessary, defeated. If enacted into law as written, the combined budget for the Air Force and Space Force for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1, would grow by $92.5 billion compared to the current fiscal year. Broken apart, the package that Congress will now consider stipulates $267.7 billion for the Air Force and $71.1 billion for the Space Force. “The Department of the Air Force’s Fiscal Year 2027 budget request moves beyond the trade-off between modernization and readiness,” said Secretary of the Air Force Troy Meink. “We are funding both as concurrent priorities to ensure the force is ready to fight tonight, tomorrow, next week, next year, and next decade.” Both the White House and senior officials from the Department of the Air Force say the historic spike in spending is necessary if America’s dominance in the air and in space is to be maintained and the challenges to homeland security met. “This is not just about maintaining an edge; it is about expanding it,” stated a Department document supporting the request. “This budget ensures the Department of the Air Force remains the ultimate guarantor of our nation's security, today and for decades to come.” “Our 2027 budget request funds our priorities of readiness, modernization and taking care of our Airmen and their families,” said Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. Ken Wilsbach. “Looking at readiness, it significantly increases accounts for flying hours, spare parts, munitions, maintenance, and advanced training that reflects the realities of today’s battlefield and tomorrow’s fight.” The budget request includes a notable investment for upgrading the ground-based nuclear deterrent known as Sentinel and injects an additional $3 billion to accelerate development of the F-47, the newest fighter. The budget proposal pushes $2.7 billion (a $1.7 billion increase) for the semi-autonomous aircraft effort known as Collaborative Combat Aircraft, and $7 billion to continue building the B-21, the newest generation long-range bomber. The budget proposal calls for spending $7.4 billion (a $1.1 billion increase) to purchase 38 F-35s and $3.9 billion for 15 new KC-46A tankers. Recognizing that the Total Force “trains as we fight,” the proposed budget earmarks $2 billion for exercises and training, including large scale exercises across both the Air Force and Space Force that allow the services to “stress test” capabilities. On a percentage basis, the budget request for the Space Force grows by 124% from the current fiscal year. The increase reflects the investment needed as the service continues to grow because of the importance of space capabilities to every action the military takes. The Space Force’s highest-ranking officer, Chief of Space Operations Gen. Chance Saltzman, acknowledged the growth of the service’s budget but said the increase matches the need, the importance of space, and how the domain is now recognized as the invisible frontline in any conflict. “As the past year has demonstrated, space is more vital than ever to our economic prosperity, our national security, and the lethality of the Joint Force,” Saltzman said. “The proposed budget represents a generational opportunity to position the Space Force to win against the growing threats and demands our nation faces today and tomorrow.” In addition to providing funds to grow the Guardian force by 2,800, the budget proposal calls for spending $6.7 billion (a 60% increase) for satellite communications “to ensure our forces have a secure, reliable” link in any environment. It also invests $6.8 billion (a $2.9 billion or 70% increase) in missile warning and missile tracking architecture. The proposal requests $21.6 billion- a 158% increase from FY26- to continue investment in all categories of Space Control systems necessary to secure the nation’s interests now and into the future. Space Control is one of the service’s three core functions and comprises the activities required to contest and control the domain. Another $500 million will be directed to cyber warfare operations to safeguard satellites. The Space Force would also receive an additional $2.9 billion over current funding for National Security Space Launches. That boost in funding will procure 22 launches. For the Air Force, the budget blueprint also calls for spending $600 million “to develop a family of affordable mass munitions” to expand the array of munitions available to commanders and planners. Responding to the increasing workload and responsibilities that the Air Force and Space Force must shoulder, the budget request calls for spending an additional $2.5 billion on personnel to increase the number of personnel across the Air Force and Space Force by 12,700 (9,900 for the Air Force and 2,800 for the Space Force.) The budget request also carries funding for pay increases across the force, using sliding scale that offers a 7% boost to the most junior enlisted personnel with lower increases for more senior leaders. The overarching goal, according to documents supporting the request, is clear. “This is not just a budget; it is a deliberate, once-in-a-lifetime push to supercharge our defense industrial base, sharpen our readiness, and secure our air and space superiority,” the document says. “This 38% increase over the FY26 enacted budget is a strategic choice to ensure we are ready for the challenges of today and tomorrow.”