Space Force growth prioritizes combat forces, space superiority > United States Space Force > Article Display

NATIONAL HARBOR, Md. (AFNS) --  During an open panel discussion at the 2026 AFA Air, Space and Cyber Conference, senior leaders emphasized that the U.S. Space Force must double in size over the next five years, a strategic imperative directly impacting USSF Combat Forces Command as it scales operational capacity to protect the Joint Force from space-enabled attack.
At the "Growth of the Space Force" session at the Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center, panelists examined how the escalating threat landscape directly drives the mission requirements. Moderator Gen. Kevin Chilton, USAF (Ret.), explorer chair at the Mitchell Institute Spacepower Advantage Center of Excellence, opened the dialogue by focusing on the operational challenges of shielding joint warfighters against adversary counter-space assets.
"The establishment of the Space Force certainly recognized the reality that space is a war-fighting domain. As such, we can no longer solely focus on simply delivering supporting effects, but must be prepared to fight through attacks and deliver direct effects,” said Chilton in his introductory remarks to the panel.
Panelists reviewed how the proposed $71.1 billion FY27 budget delivers the resources necessary for the U.S. Space Force to scale its operational squadrons, field resilient orbital capabilities, and establish credible deterrence against pacing adversaries.
"In the five-year plan we have for the U.S. Space Force, two-thirds of the growth is into Combat Forces Command, so we can generate more combat crews and more force elements for the commanders of space forces, and that includes some of the capabilities that you're all so very familiar with, but it also includes new capability,” said Lt. Gen. Gregory Gagnon, commander of U.S. Space Force Combat Forces Command.
Central to the discussion was Combat Forces Command's requirement to rapidly field and operationalize advanced offensive and defensive space control capabilities. Lt. Gen. Gregory J. Gagnon highlighted that scaling total personnel, across both active-duty military and civilian specialists, is essential to sustaining round-the-clock combat readiness and tactical superiority.
“Space superiority is a joint priority, and you are being asked to lead and deliver it. That starts with space control, combat power, and the training and rehearsal needed to make it credible,” said Gagnon.
The panel addressed the critical supporting infrastructure required for Combat Forces Command to execute distributed operations globally. Kathryn Kolbe, Assistant Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Installations and Logistics, discussed initiatives to transition toward dispersed and networked facilities, ensuring that command nodes and operational elements remain survivable under cyber or kinetic attack.
“Installations, infrastructure, sustainment, and logistics are a key enabler for warfighting capability for the Space Force,” said Kolbe. “That is our focus, and we will continue to work to improve those resources to provide enhanced warfighting capability.”
To ensure operators assigned to Combat Forces Command are prepared for peer-level conflict, Chief Master Sergeant of the Space Force John Bentivegna, detailed how advanced physical and virtual test ranges are expanding to provide high-fidelity mission rehearsal and tactical validation.
"Building a warfighting service starts with training Guardians from the very beginning to operate as crews, work as teams, understand the threat, and get the reps and sets needed to succeed in a high-end fight,” said Bentivegna. “As we grow in competency and capacity, we must create realistic training environments that sharpen our tactics, techniques and procedures while strengthening integration with the Joint Force, combatant commands, allies and partners.”
Panelists agreed that the ultimate operational edge for Combat Forces Command lies in its specialized workforce. Maj. Gen. James E. Smith, Commander of Space Training and Readiness Command highlighted the direct link between human capital investments, such as focused technical recruitment pipelines, rigorous operational training, and comprehensive family support systems, and the operational effectiveness of frontline combat units.
"We will absolutely succeed at meeting and executing the task we've been given to grow in size, thanks to the partnership across the Space Force and really the Joint Force that helped us make that happen,” said Smith “We all need to remember the goal isn't to grow. The goal is to create a force that can deter and win. While we must succeed at doubling, ultimately, we must succeed in the greater mission, which is ensuring our nation and protecting our nation's interests in, from and to space.”