Trump's MAGA Inc. gives $10 million to Texas' Ken Paxton for Senate bid 
 Find us on Google 📌 America's birthday 🎂 Start the day smarter ☀️ Get the USA TODAY app 
 
 U.S. Politics Sports Entertainment Life Money Travel Opinion Crossword 
 ONLY AT USA TODAY:
 Newsletters For Subscribers Real Estate From the Archives USA TODAY PLAY Crossword Marvel Comics eNewspaper Magazines       Investigations Video 
 Podcasts Humankind Advertise Your Business WITNESS (True Crime) Just Curious Best-selling Booklist Top Workplaces Nomination Legals Press Releases Cars Grocery Shopping 
 OUR PORTFOLIO:
 Real Estate 10BEST USA TODAY Store       Shopping 
 Blueprint WITNESS (True Crime) Southern Kitchen       Home Internet Services 

 
 

 
 
 
 ELECTIONS 
 Donald Trump
 Add Topic 

 Trump's MAGA Inc. sends $10 million to help Ken Paxton's Senate bid
 In what could be a good sign for Republican candidates, the pro-Trump super PAC MAGA Inc. has issued $10 million to help boost the U.S. Senate campaign of Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton.
 Mike Snider USA TODAY

 Updated Sept. 5, 2026, 4:52 p.m. ET
 Hear this story 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 President Donald Trump has officially opened his campaign wallet for the midterms.
 Trump's MAGA Inc. has donated $10 million to the campaign of Texas Attorney General and  U.S. Senate candidate Ken Paxton , according to an Federal Election Commission filing made public on Saturday, Sept. 5.
 Republicans concerned about the upcoming midterm elections have been anxiously awaiting outlays of funding from the super PAC, which had $403 million in the bank at the end of July, according to the  latest disclosures  filed with the Federal Election Commission.
 According to the filing, MAGA Inc. dispersed $5 million for TV and digital advertising in support of Paxton and $5 million for ads opposing James Talarico, who's running against Paxton to replace Sen.  John Cornyn . The Cook Political Report and Fox News recently deemed the seat – long held by Republicans – a toss-up.
 
 
 Kennedy Center: Part of ceiling collapses during rainstorm Trump said he planned to spend as much as $500 million to help Republican candidates for the U.S. House and Senate ahead of the Nov. 3 election. "We’re going to spend a lot of money because we don’t want to lose our country," Trump said in the Oval Office on Friday, Sept. 4 .
 
 Trump said he has about $1 billion on hand to spend but plans to disburse between $400 million and $500 million. It's unclear whether he is expecting to spend more or if he misspoke about how much MAGA Inc. has.
 Earlier in the week, Trump said he planned to campaign for Republicans locked in close races. "I'll be with you 100 percent. We're going to do something like I did for myself in the last presidential election. Four months out, I said, 'OK, no days off,'" Trump said at a Sept. 2 Rose Garden dinner attended by about three dozen House Republicans.
 Download USA TODAY's app to get to the heart of news Lindsay Clancy jury says it's still deadlocked, judge gives 'dynamite instruction' Lindsay Clancy jury can't agree. Here's what a Tuey-Rodriguez charge does How maps are handling Lake Ontario to Lake America name change Longtime 'Wheel of Fortune' announcer Jim Thornton is suspended Viral 'Cat in the Hat' trend linked to arrests and school lockdowns 
 
 Contributing: Joey Garrison, Bart Jansen, Jeanine Santucci and Erin Mansfield 
 Mike Snider is a national trending news reporter for USA TODAY. You can follow him on Threads, Bluesky, X and email him at   mikegsnider  &   @mikegsnider.bsky.social  &   @mikesnider & msnider@usatoday.com. 

 
 

 Featured Weekly Ad

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 About Us Newsroom Staff Ethical Principles USA TODAY Network Style Guide Responsible Disclosure Request a Correction Media Room Accessibility Sitemap Subscription Terms & Conditions Advertiser Acceptance Policy Terms of Service Privacy Policy California Notice at Collection Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Your Privacy Choices 
 Contact Us Help Center Manage Account Give Feedback Get Home Delivery eNewspaper USA TODAY Shop USA TODAY Print Editions Licensing & Reprints Advertise Your Business Careers Internships Support Local Business 
 News Tips Submitting letters to the editor Podcasts Newsletters Mobile Apps Facebook X Instagram LinkedIn Threads YouTube Reddit Flipboard 
 Real Estate 10BEST USA TODAY Store Shopping Deals Cashback Best-selling Booklist Southern Kitchen Jobs Sports Betting Sports Weekly Studio Gannett Classifieds Blueprint WITNESS (True Crime) Home Internet Services Branded Stories Hub 

 © 2026 USA TODAY, a division of Gannett Satellite Information Network, LLC.
