Governor Kehoe Signs Missouri First Map into Law | Governor Mike Kehoe Skip to main content An official website of Missouri state government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official Missouri state government websites use .mo.gov A .mo.gov website belongs to an official government organization in the state of Missouri. Secure .mo.gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .mo.gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Governor Mike Kehoe Menu Home About Governor First Lady Governor&#039;s Staff State Agencies Media Media News Statements Actions Actions Executive Orders Legislative Actions Proclamations Contact Us Flag Status: Full Staff Search Governor Kehoe Signs Missouri First Map into Law September 28, 2025 Jefferson City Today, Governor Mike Kehoe signed House Bill (HB) 1 of the One Hundred Third General Assembly's Second Extraordinary Session of the First Regular Session into law. HB 1, sponsored by Representative Dirk Deaton and Senator Rusty Black, creates provisions for redistricting federal congressional seats. “I was proud to officially sign the Missouri First Map into law today ahead of the 2026 midterm election,” said Governor Kehoe . “Missourians are more alike than we are different, and our values, across both sides of the aisle, are closer to each other than those of the congressional representation of states like New York, California, and Illinois. We believe this map best represents Missourians, and I appreciate the support and efforts of state legislators, our congressional delegation, and President Trump in getting this map to my desk.” On August 29, Governor Kehoe convened the General Assembly for a special session to enact legislation establishing updated congressional districts for the State of Missouri and amending the state’s initiative petition process. Governor Kehoe worked with the General Assembly to pass the Missouri First Map in HB 1, a more compact, contiguous map that was created by Governor Kehoe's team. Highlights of the Missouri First Map: Splits fewer counties and municipalities than the current map. Preserves two congressional districts as currently drawn. Retains every current member of Missouri’s congressional delegation in their current districts. On September 12, the General Assembly truly agreed to and finally passed the Missouri First Map in House Bill 1 and the "Protect Missouri Voters" amendment in House Joint Resolution 3, which will be placed on the ballot for voter approval. Additional information on the map will be available at this link through the Office of Administration's Redistricting Office. For more information on HB 1, visit house.mo.gov . ### Return to top Learn More Office of Governor Mike Kehoe P.O. Box 720, Jefferson City, MO 65102 Phone: (573) 751-3222 Fax: (573) 751-1495 Help Contact Us FAQs Media Requests About About the Governor About the First Lady About the State of Missouri Latest News Press Releases Subscribe to Updates Online Services Scheduling Request Proclamation Request Boards & Commissions Social toolbar Like on Facebook Follow on X Follow us on Instagram Follow on LinkedIn Watch videos on YouTube View photos on Flickr Footer menu Privacy Policy Accessibility Website Support Data Policy
