Changing the Maps: Tracking Mid-Decade Redistricting Skip to main content Foundation Careers Register Login Search Search Search Resources News Events About Us Resource Changing the Maps: Tracking Mid-Decade Redistricting Updated September 01, 2026 A Resource is information to better inform your work. Related Topic: Redistricting Once every 10 years, following the release of decennial census data, states revise the legislative districts from which voters will elect members to the U.S. House of Representatives and their state legislatures for the next decade. Within the last year, however, states have undertaken mid-decade redistricting at rates not seen since the 1800s . Since summer 2025, 10 states have changed their congressional maps: Alabama, California, Florida, Louisiana, Missouri, North Carolina, Ohio, Tennessee, Texas and Utah. This page tracks states that make changes to district maps between the 2020 and 2030 redistricting cycles, beginning in late 2025. In many states, some officials have expressed interest in redistricting, but only some have undertaken a full redistricting process. States are added to this tracker when official redistricting action is taken, such as: A bill proposing new maps or a redistricting ballot question is introduced in the legislature or a legislative committee A special session on redistricting is called A ballot question proposing or authorizing the creation of new maps qualifies for the ballot A redistricting commission is set to convene A final court order directs a state to draw new maps Click on a state's name in the table below for more details about the state's redistricting process and law. --> Modal title &times; &#215; Mid-Decade Redistricting Tracker State Status Stay Tuned What to Know Alabama Alabama's request to revert to 2023 congressional maps was granted by U.S. Supreme Court June 2, 2026. The 2023 maps are in effect. Special primary elections for congressional districts affected by map changes are set for Aug. 11. Alabama's 2021 congressional map was the subject of the Supreme Court case Allen v. Milligan. The court held that Alabama's map violated Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act. Alabama enacted a new map in 2023, which courts rejected as a racial gerrymander. A court-drawn map was implemented in 2023 and is currently in effect. However, the Supreme Court's May 2026 opinion in Louisiana v. Callais changed the standards by which courts evaluate the use of race in redistricting. Alabama was enjoined from redrawing district maps until after 2030, but the U.S. Supreme Court granted the state's request to dissolve that injunction in light of Callais on May 11, 2026. Gov. Ivey initially rejected calls for redistricting but ultimately determined that the 2023 maps would go back into effect when the injunction was lifted. After the U.S. Supreme Court lifted the injunction in May 2026, a federal court ruled Alabama's 2023 maps violated Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act under the new Callais Test. On June 2, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed that ruling, allowing Alabama's 2023 maps to take effect. This litigation represents the first time federal courts have applied the Callais Test in a redistricting case. California Congressional maps adopted via ballot measure Nov. 4, 2025. The new maps will be in effect for the 2026 election cycle. California's congressional primary elections are on June 2, 2026, and every member of the U.S. House will be up for election on Nov. 3, 2026. The California Constitution delegates primary responsibility for drawing congressional maps to a redistricting commission. For the California Legislature to exercise authority over redistricting and draw a new map this year, they must amend the state constitution to allow the legislature to redistricting instead of the commission. Appearing on November's ballot, Proposition 50 asked California voters to revise their constitution to state that the maps passed by lawmakers in August will take effect until the redistricting commission certifies new maps in 2031. Voters approved the measure in the Nov. 4, 2025 election. Florida Congressional maps enacted May 4, 2026. Candidate filing deadlines moved to June 12, 2026. Litigation is ongoing. New maps will be in effect for the 2026 election cycle. Florida's congressional primary elections are on Aug. 18, 2026, and every member of the U.S. House will be up for election on Nov. 3, 2026. Litigation arguing the new maps violate the Florida Constitution is ongoing in state court. Florida redistricting takes place against the backdrop of the Fair Districts Amendment, which set redistricting standards in the state constitution when it became law in 2010. State court interpretation of the law is still developing. Some past maps have been struck down under the amendment, while others have been upheld. Separately, challenges to the governor's authority to call a special redistricting session were rejected by the Florida Supreme Court in Feb. 2026. Georgia Legislature declined to take up redistricting in special session convened June 17, 2026. Some lawmakers have expressed interest in revisiting redistricting in the future. Georgia's 2026 congressional elections will take place under the state's current maps. Georgia's congressional primaries were on May 19, runoffs were on June 16, and every member of the U.S. House will be up for election on Nov. 3, 2026. Gov. Brian Kemp called the legislature into special session to consider new maps for the 2028 elections. Georgia was the first state to take official steps toward redistricting for 2028, but the legislature ultimately declined to consider new maps. Indiana The legislature voted down new maps in special session on Dec. 11, 2025. Indiana's 2021 maps will remain in effect for the 2026 election cycle. Indiana's congressional primary elections are on May 5, 2026, and every member of the U.S. House will be up for election on Nov. 3, 2026. Gov. Mike Braun called for a special session to consider new congressional maps, giving the legislature 40 days from Nov. 3, 2025 to meet. Legislative leadership initially announced they did not have the votes to move forward with redistricting. New maps passed the House but were voted down in the Senate on Dec. 11, 2025. Louisiana Congressional maps enacted May 29, 2026. Primaries postponed until Nov. 3. The new maps will be in effect for the 2026 election cycle. Louisiana's congressional primaries were originally set for May 16, 2026 and have been postponed until Nov. 3. General elections will occur on the state's regularly scheduled Dec. 12, 2026 election date. Louisiana's congressional map was the subject of Louisiana v. Callais, in which the U.S. Supreme Court held the map was an unconstitutional racial gerrymander. Following the decision, Louisiana requested the court to issue its decision to the state on an expedited basis, allowing lawmakers to begin redistricting immediately. Supreme Court decisions typically do not officially issue to the states or parties they apply for roughly 30 days after opinions are released. Maryland New maps will not be in effect for the 2026 election cycle. A state court blocked a constitutional amendment from appearing on the November. 2026 ballot on Aug. 26, 2026. Litigation ongoing. The state supreme court will hear an appeal on the order blocking the ballot measure on Sept. 3, 2026. HB 2100 passed the legislature Aug. 4, 2026. The bill refers a constitutional amendment to the Nov. 3, 2026, ballot that would exempt congressional district maps from state redistricting criteria. The measure is widely understood to tee up congressional redistricting before the 2028 elections. The amendment would stipulate that all redistricting criteria in the state constitution apply only to state legislative district maps, not congressional maps. It would also give the legislature authority to grant original jurisdiction to the state supreme court to review congressional district maps. Maryland previously considered&mdash;and rejected&mdash; mid-decade redistricting. Introduced during the 2026 regular session, HB 488 would have created new maps and referred a state constitutional amendment to the Nov. 2026 ballot. Senate leadership opposed redistricting, and the session adjourned on April 13, 2026 without Senate action on redistricting legislation. Maryland governors typically convene an advisory commission that recommends maps to the legislature during each decennial redistricting cycle. Gov. Wes Moore reconvened his commission in November 2025 before the legislature's regular session redistricting push. Mississippi Joint Redistricting and Reapportionment Committee holding public hearings on the possibility of new legislative, congressional and judicial maps. Hearings will continue through late Sept. 2026. Litigation over legislative and supreme court districts is ongoing. Gov. Tate Reeves set a special redistricting session for spring 2026, at which the legislature was to consider new state supreme court district maps. Following the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling in Louisiana v. Callais, Reeves cancelled the special session. In 2025, a federal district court held that Mississippi's supreme court districts violated the VRA and ordered new maps. The Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed that order under Callais' new legal standards for VRA claims. In light of Callais, the U.S. Supreme Court also reversed a 2024 ruling ordering Mississippi to redraw its state legislative districts on May 18, 2026. Missouri Congressional maps enacted Sept. 28, 2025. Litigation ongoing. On Aug. 4, 2026, the secretary of state determined the referendum seeking to repeal the new maps did not qualify for the November ballot. Litigation arguing the referendum is properly qualified for the ballot is pending in state court. After the 2025 maps were enacted, opponents of the maps collected and submitted signatures to certify a popular referendum repealing the maps. The Missouri secretary of state rejected the referendum petition after determining congressional district maps are not subject to the popular referendum. Supporters of the referendum plan to challenge this decision in court. In the past, Missouri legislation subject to a referendum had been paused from taking effect from the time petition signatures are turned in until the time the referendum is voted on. The secretary of state and attorney general determined the 2025 maps should remain in effect until signature review was complete. On May 12, 2026, the state Supreme Court ruled that the 2025 maps would remain in effect while petition signatures are verified. New York Legislation proposing a constitutional amendment passed the legislature June 17, 2026. The measure must pass the legislature a second time before qualifying to appear on the ballot for voter approval. New maps will not be in effect for the 2026 midterms. New York's congressional primary elections are on June 23, and every member of the U.S. House will be up for election on Nov. 3, 2026. SB 10637, adopted June 17, 2026, proposes a state constitutional amendment authorizing the legislature to undertake mid-decade redistricting. The measure would also repeal redistricting criteria related to partisanship. The measure must be approved by the legislature twice before it can appear on the ballot. The measure could appear on the New York ballot in 2027, which would permit redistricting before the 2028 elections. The New York Constitution delegates primary responsibility for drawing congressional maps to a redistricting commission. The legislature has a role in selecting new maps if the commission cannot come to an agreement on a single map. The legislature can also modify commission-adopted maps by a supermajority vote. On Jan. 21, 2026, a state court held that New York's 11th congressional district violated the state constitution by diluting the votes of Black and Latino New Yorkers. The judge gave the state's redistricting commission until Feb. 6 to draw new maps. On March 2, 2026 the U.S. Supreme Court stayed that order, and the parties voluntarily dismissed the case on March 19. New York also has a state Voting Rights Act, but the text of the law does not apply its provisions to congressional redistricting. In the 2026 opinion ordering new congressional districts, the judge confirmed that New York's state VRA does not pertain to congressional districts. North Carolina Congressional maps enacted Oct. 22, 2025. North Carolina's congressional primaries were on March 3, 2026, and every member of the U.S. House will be up for election on Nov. 3, 2026. North Carolina has redrawn district maps multiple times since 2021, sometimes pursuant to court orders. Ohio Congressional maps adopted Oct. 31, 2025. The new maps will be in effect for the 2026 election cycle. Ohio's congressional primary elections are on May 5, 2026, and every member of the U.S. House will be up for election on Nov. 3, 2026. Ohio's backup redistricting commission passed the state's new maps with bipartisan agreement. The state's redistricting process has three potential stages. First, the legislature has the opportunity to enact maps. Maps must receive three-fifths approval&mdash;including support from at least half of Republicans and Democrats in the House and Senate&mdash;to pass. If the legislature does not meet that bipartisan support requirement, Ohio's redistricting commission can pass maps. Maps must receive support from at least two Democratic and two Republican commissioners to pass, out of seven total members. If the commission cannot meet that bipartisan support requirement, the legislature has the final opportunity to adopt new maps. No bipartisan passage requirements apply at this stage, but maps that do not receive three-fifths approval are only valid for four years instead of ten. South Carolina Legislation proposing a new congressional map died in the Senate. 2022 maps remain in effect. New maps will not be in effect for the 2026 election cycle. South Carolina's congressional primary elections are on June 9, 2026, and every member of the U.S. House will be up for election on Nov. 3, 2026. The state House of Representatives passed a resolution authorizing the legislature to convene after adjourning in May 2026 to consider redistricting. The Senate rejected the resolution. The legislature instead convened in special session on May 15 pursuant to Gov. Henry McMaster's order. Early voting in the state's June 9 congressional primary began on May 26, the same day the Senate rejected new maps. South Carolina's current congressional districts were the subject of Alexander v. South Carolina NAACP, a 2024 Supreme Court case addressing the interplay of race and partisanship in redistricting. Tennessee Congressional maps adopted May 7, 2026. The new maps will be in effect for the 2026 election cycle. Tennessee's congressional primaries are on Aug. 6, 2026, and every member of the U.S. House will be up for election on Nov. 3, 2026. Before enacting the new 2026 maps, Tennessee lawmakers passed a law repealing a state law that prohibited mid-decade congressional redistricting. Texas Congressional maps enacted Aug. 29. Injunction on maps stayed Dec. 4, 2025. The new maps will be in effect for the 2026 election cycle. Texas's congressional primary elections are on March 3, 2026, and every member of the U.S. House will be up for election on Nov. 3, 2026. A November court order instructed Texas to use the maps enacted by the legislature in 2021 for the congressional midterm elections in 2026, finding that the 2026 maps were an unconstitutional racial gerrymander. On Nov. 21, the U.S. Supreme Court temporarily stayed that lower court order, while it considered the merits of the case. On Dec. 4, the Supreme Court issued a final stay of the lower court's order, meaning the 2026 maps are in effect in Texas. Among other things, the court held that the lower court did not give the state legislature enough deference and that its ruling impermissibly interfered with Texas's ongoing congressional primary campaign. Utah Congressional maps adopted via court order Nov. 10, 2025. The new maps will be in effect for the 2026 election cycle. In 2018, Utah voters approved Proposition 4, adopting an advisory redistricting commission and rules and criteria governing the mapmaking process. In 2020, the legislature replaced Prop 4's system with a revised version of the commission and redistricting process. In 2025, Utah courts held that the legislature lacked the authority to change the laws enacted via Prop 4, putting the redistricting commission, criteria and processes back into effect as they were originally adopted in 2018. The court also held that Utah's congressional maps did not comply with Prop 4's requirements and ordered the adoption of new maps. Opponents of Prop 4 sought to certify a ballot measure asking voters to repeal the laws, but the measure failed to qualify for the ballot. Utah lawmakers appealed the court order reinstating Prop 4 and implementing the 2025 maps. The court ruled against them in February 2026. Virginia 2026 congressional maps overturned by state Supreme Court May 8, 2026. 2021 maps currently in effect. New maps will not be in effect for the 2026 election cycle. The maps implemented by the Virginia Supreme Court in 2021 will go back into effect.Virginia's congressional primary elections are on Aug. 4, and every member of the U.S. House will be up for election on Nov. 3, 2026. The Virginia Constitution delegates primary responsibility for drawing congressional maps to a redistricting commission. For the Virginia Legislature to exercise authority over redistricting and draw its own new maps, lawmakers must amend the state constitution to allow the legislature to redistrict instead of the commission. A constitutional amendment must pass the legislature and then be "referred to the General Assembly at its first regular session held after the next general election" for the House of Delegates. At that point, an amendment must pass the legislature again. Only then can it appear on the ballot for voter approval. The legislature approved a constitutional amendment authorizing it to implement new maps during a special session in late 2025 and again during the 2026 regular session. Litigation filed after the legislature approved the measure argued, among other things, that the amendment was not passed pursuant to proper legislative procedure. The state Supreme Court held that the special election could move forward while litigation continued. On May 8, 2026, the state Supreme Court held that the redistricting amendment violated the state constitution because the November 2025 general election was already underway when the legislature first approved the amendment, meaning the amendment was not approved in two consecutive legislative sessions with a general election in between. The U.S. Supreme Court denied Virginia's request to review this ruling. Washington HJR 4209 died in the state house upon adjournment of the legislative session on March 12, 2026. New maps will not be in effect for the 2026 election cycle. Washington's congressional primary elections are on Aug. 4, 2026, and every member of the U.S. House will be up for election on Nov. 3, 2026. The Washington Constitution delegates primary responsibility for drawing congressional maps to a redistricting commission. For the legislature to exercise authority over redistricting, lawmakers must amend the state constitution to allow the legislature to redistrict instead of the commission. The proposed amendment would authorize the legislature to implement new congressional maps anytime another state undertakes mid-decade redistricting absent a court order or other legal requirement. Washington's redistricting commission would continue to convene and draw new maps in each year ending in one. A constitutional amendment requires two-thirds approval in each chamber to be referred to the ballot. Neither chamber has such a one-party supermajority. NCSL Redistricting and Census Resources This page lists NCSL&#39;s online resources about redistricting and the Census. This includes webpages, news articles, podcasts, webinars and more. Redistricting Criteria State legislatures or commissions tasked with redistricting must consider various criteria, or principles, when deciding how to draw new maps. Redistricting Commissions: Congressional Plans State-by-State analysis of redistricting commissions used to draw congressional district lines. Redistricting Law 2020 This page contains the executive summary of &quot;Redistricting Law 2020&quot; and links to the full report. Contact NCSL Use this form to reach NCSL staff. Email Full Name What is your role? Legislator Legislative Staff Other Is this a press or media inquiry? No Yes Message Captcha Admin Email --> Related Resources Updated September 02, 2026 How Redistricting Maps Become Law How a redistricting map gets enacted varies by state. Some states pass maps like regular bills, some don't give the governor the option to veto a map, and others require bipartisan support for new maps. Redistricting Table Updated August 26, 2026 2030 Redistricting: Election Dates for Legislators and Governors This page lists election years for the state legislators and governors who will be in office during the 2030 redistricting cycle. It also lists appointment years for commissioners in states with redistricting commissions. Elections Redistricting Map Updated August 10, 2026 Disclosure Avoidance: Census Data and Redistricting This page explores the Census Bureau's approach to keeping census data private over time. It explains methods used in 2010 and 2020 to ensure that data from individuals and individual households remains confidential and tracks updates to the Bureau's plans for 2030. Redistricting Technology Find Us: NCSL on Facebook NCSL on X (Twitter) NCSL on Youtube NCSL on LinkedIn NCSL on Instagram Contact Us Contact Us x Denver 7700 E. First Place Denver, CO 80230 303-364-7700 Washington, D.C. 444 N. Capitol St., N.W., Suite 515 Washington, D.C. 20001 202-624-5400 Terms of Use Privacy Statement Accessibility Consent Preferences Advertise With NCSL © 2026 by National Conference of State Legislatures
