                                                   15a

                                          No. SC101805
                   Circuit Court of Cole County Case Number 26AC-CC00440
                   In the Supreme Court of Missouri
                                                                        September Session, 2026

Richard von Glahn,
                Appellant,
v. APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF COLE COUNTY

Denny Hoskins, in His Official Capacity, et al.,
                     Respondents.


        Now at this day come again the parties aforesaid, by their respective attorneys, and the
Court here being now sufficiently advised of and concerning the premises, doth consider and
adjudge that the judgment aforesaid, in form aforesaid, by the said Cole County Circuit Court
rendered, be reversed, annulled and for naught held and esteemed, and that the said Appellant be
restored to all things which he has lost by reason of said judgment in conformity with the opinion
of this Court herein delivered; and that the said Appellant recover against the said Respondents
costs and charges herein expended, and have execution therefor.
.

(Opinion filed.)

STATE OF MISSOURI-Sct.

       I, BETSY LEDGERWOOD, Clerk of the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri, certify

that the foregoing is a full, true and complete transcript of the judgment of said Supreme Court,

entered of record at the September Session thereof, 2026, and on the 3rd day of September, 2026,

in the above entitled cause.

                                     Given under my hand and seal of said Court at the City of

                                     Jefferson, this 3rd day of September, 2026.




                                                                                    Clerk



                                                                            Deputy Clerk
                                                   16a




                     Supreme Court of Missouri
                                           SC101805

                                       September 4, 2026

Richard Von Glahn,
       Appellant,
         vs.
Denny Hoskins, In His Official Capacity, et al.,
      Respondents.

                                             Order


Respondent’s motion for a stay of injunction pending emergency appeal and application for stay
                    to the Supreme Court of the United States overruled.




   By:
                           Chief Justice
