LEAD INSPECTOR GENERAL REPORT TO THE UNITED STATES CONGRESS




       OPERATION
       EPIC FURY
                     APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026
                          Pursuant to Executive Order 14347, “Restoring the United States Department
                          of War,” September 5, 2025, the Department of Defense Inspector General
                          (DoD IG) and Office of Inspector General (DoD OIG) use the secondary titles
                          of the Department of War Inspector General (DoW IG) and Office of Inspector
                          General (DoW OIG), respectively. The use of these secondary titles does not in
                          any way affect the primary statutory title or authorities of the DoD IG under
                          The Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended (5 U.S.C. Chapter 4, Inspectors
                          General), or the authorities or responsibilities of the DoD IG or DoD OIG
                          pursuant to any laws, regulations, or policies.




On the cover: U.S. Marines board Celestial Sea, an Iranian-flagged commercial oil tanker suspected of attempting to violate the
U.S. blockade by transiting toward an Iranian port, on May 20, 2026. (U.S. Marine Corps Photo)
                     We are pleased to present this Lead Inspector General (Lead IG)
                     report to Congress on Operation Epic Fury (OEF). This is our first
                     report on OEF, following the Chair of the Council of the Inspectors
                     General on Integrity and Efficiency’s designation of the Department
                     of War Inspector General as the Lead IG for OEF on May 12, 2026.
                     This report fulfills our quarterly reporting responsibilities pursuant
                     to the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended.

                     This report describes the activities of the U.S. Government in support
                     of OEF as well as the work of the Department of War (DoW), the
                     Department of State (State), and other U.S. Government agencies
                     to further the U.S. Government’s policy goals with respect to Iran.
                     It also discusses the planned, ongoing, and completed oversight
                     work conducted by the Lead IG agencies and our partner oversight
                     agencies. This report covers the period through June 30, 2026.




     Platte B. Moring, III                       Arne B. Baker                               Van Nguyen
Lead Inspector General for OEF        Associate Inspector General for OEF          Acting Deputy Inspector General
      Inspector General                     Acting Inspector General                 Performing the Duties of the
                                                                                          Inspector General
   U.S. Department of War                   U.S. Department of State
                                                                                     U.S. Agency for International
                                                                                             Development
     OPERATION EPIC FURY




IN THIS REPORT
                                                                                                    Arleigh Burke-class
                                                                                                    guided-missile
                                                                                                    destroyer USS
                                                                                                    Bulkeley fires a
Mission and Resources                                                                    pp. 4–15   Tomahawk Land
                                                                                                    Attack Missile
     • U.S. forces launched Operation Epic Fury (OEF) on February 28 to dismantle the Iranian       during operations
       regime’s security apparatus, including its missile production and naval capabilities, and    in support of OEF on
       to ensure that Iran never acquires nuclear weapons.                                          February 28, 2026.
                                                                                                    (U.S. Navy Photo)
     • The DoW estimated the cost of OEF to be $33.4 billion as of June 29. The estimate
       includes $7.4 billion of cumulative obligations (incremental costs) for OEF, $22.3 billion
       for expended munitions, and $3.7 billion in equipment losses, but does not include costs
       for infrastructure repairs.

     • State reported that as of June 2, it had incurred $113 million in costs related to the
       conflict with Iran. This includes $79.2 million to respond to contingencies stemming
       from the Iran conflict, such as evacuation-related expenses for State personnel and their
       family members, U.S. citizens, and eligible third-country nationals.

     • More than 50,000 U.S. Service members were deployed throughout the U.S. Central
       Command (USCENTCOM) area of responsibility (AOR) in support of OEF.

     • USCENTCOM dispersed U.S. forces across the AOR, often to new basing locations, with
       the intent to reduce vulnerability of forces and sustain combat power.

     • The U.S. Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM) conducted more than 1,500 air
       missions, surging to 30 to 40 daily missions directly into the USCENTCOM AOR.


2   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026
                                                                                                              IN THIS REPORT




U.S. Losses and Sustainment                                                           pp. 16–20
  • The DoW reported that from February 28 to June 30, seven U.S. Service members
    were killed in action and seven were killed in non-hostile events during OEF combat
    operations. During the same period, 417 service members were wounded in action.

  • U.S. diplomatic facilities in four countries—Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and the United
                                                                                                         CONTENTS
    Arab Emirates—suffered physical damage from Iranian strikes. The estimated cost of the                  4	MISSION AND
    damages is approximately $184 million.                                                                     RESOURCES
                                                                                                            4 Introduction
  • Between February 23 and June 30, approximately 3,500 diplomatic personnel in the
                                                                                                            8 Funding
    region were either on authorized or ordered departure, or already out of the country.
                                                                                                           11	Personnel and Force
                                                                                                               Structure
U.S. Diplomatic and Economic Activity                                            pp. 5–7, 21–26
  • State directly arranged for the departure of approximately 9,000 Americans in the                     16	U.S. LOSSES
    region, and offered security information, travel assistance, and chartered buses.                         AND
    This included arranging 56 flights to evacuate thousands of private U.S. citizens from                    SUSTAINMENT
    the Middle East.                                                                                       16	U.S. Military
                                                                                                               Personnel
  • Between January 1 and June 30, State and Treasury took actions against Iran and its
                                                                                                           16 Expended Munitions
    proxies, including designating or blocking more than a thousand individuals, entities,
                                                                                                           18	U.S. Military Facilities
    and vessels, as well as identifying hundreds of millions of dollars’ worth of blocked                      and Equipment
    assets.
                                                                                                           19	U.S. Diplomatic
  • The United States made three emergency declarations under the Arms Export Control                          Facilities
    Act to expedite urgently needed defense systems to regional partners, totaling                         20	U.S. Diplomatic
    $25.32 billion.                                                                                            Personnel

  • The United States reached a ceasefire with Iran on April 7 and jointly signed a                       21	U.S.
    Memorandum of Understanding on June 17. As of the end of the reporting period,                            DIPLOMATIC
    negotiations on outstanding issues had reached a stalemate and hostilities continued.                     AND ECONOMIC
                                                                                                              ACTIVITY
                                                                                                           21	Assistance to
                                                                                                               U.S. Citizens
                                                                                                           23 Economic Fury
                                                                                                           24 Foreign Military Sales
                                                                                                           26	Impact on
                                                                                                               U.S. Foreign
                                                                                                               Assistance

                                                                                                          27 APPENDIXES
                                                                                                          33 ACRONYMS
                                                                                                          34 MAPS
                                                                                                           34 Map of Iran
                                                                                                           35	Map of Strait
                                                                                                               of Hormuz

                                                                                                          36 ENDNOTES




                                                              APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I 3
     OPERATION EPIC FURY




MISSION AND RESOURCES
                                                                                                   Aircraft staged for
                                                                                                   flight operations on
                                                                                                   the flight deck of the
                                                                                                   USS Abraham Lincoln

INTRODUCTION
                                                                                                   in support of OEF,
                                                                                                   on March 3, 2026.
                                                                                                   (U.S. Navy photo)
On February 28, 2026, U.S. forces launched Operation Epic Fury (OEF) as a U.S.-Israeli
partnered campaign to “destroy Iran’s ability to project military power” in the region by
striking Iranian nuclear, missile, naval, and regime security targets.1

According to State, Iran poses the greatest threat to the United States from the Middle East,
both directly, in the form of its nuclear and ballistic missile capabilities, and indirectly, in
its funding of terror proxies.2 Secretary of War Pete Hegseth said that for decades, Iran has
waged an ongoing conflict with the United States that has included lethal attacks against
U.S. forces in the Middle East, threats and attacks against regional countries, and support
to terrorist proxy organizations.3 After U.S. strikes on Iran’s nuclear sites in June 2025,
Iran expanded its ballistic missile production to protect its nuclear weapons development
program.4

MISSION OBJECTIVES
Secretary Hegseth said that through OEF, the United States seeks to destroy Iran’s offensive
missiles, missile production, navy, and other security infrastructure, and ensure that Iran
never has nuclear weapons.5 General Dan Caine, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said
that more broadly, the OEF mission is to defend the United States and “disrupt, degrade,
deny, and destroy Iran’s ability to conduct and sustain combat operations.”6 The full OEF
mission statement is classified.


4   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026
                                                                                        MISSION AND RESOURCES




                     The U.S. Central Command (USCENTCOM) reported that it continued to refine and adjust
                     the OEF mission after it began.7 U.S. naval operations in the Strait of Hormuz (SoH),
                     including those that occurred after the April 7 ceasefire, were part of the OEF mission,
                     USCENTCOM said.8

                     USCENTCOM, with support from multiple U.S. combatant commands, is responsible for
                     executing the OEF campaign. OEF has involved the integration of air, land, sea, cyber, and
                     space components; an extensive, rapid deployment of forces and assets; expansion of basing
                     access; and regionally integrated air defense networks to protect the forces.9

                     EVOLUTION OF THE OEF MISSION
                     USCENTCOM reported that prior to the start of OEF, the United States had built a regional
                     network of partner access and air defense networks that laid the groundwork for major
                     combat operations.10 In February 2025, President Donald J. Trump issued National Security
                     Presidential Memorandum-2, directing the Departments of State and the Treasury to exert
                     maximum pressure through sanctions and other financial targeting to disrupt Iran’s nuclear
                     ambitions and malign activities.11 In June 2025, the United States executed Operation
                     Midnight Hammer, a series of military strikes that targeted Iran’s nuclear capabilities.12

                     The nature of U.S. military activity under the OEF mission evolved over the course of the
                     reporting period in response to the Iranian threat and U.S. diplomatic efforts to end the
                     conflict.

                     Preparation: In the months leading up to the launch of OEF, the DoW systematically
                     repositioned personnel and key assets to enhance regional deterrence and prepare for a
                     potential contingency operation.13 Thousands of Service members from all branches were
                     deployed, along with hundreds of advanced fighter jets, dozens of refueling tankers, the
                     USS Abraham Lincoln and USS Gerald R. Ford Carrier Strike Groups and their embarked air
                     wings, and a sustained flow of munitions, fuel, and supplies—all supported with command-
                     and-control networks and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) assets.14
Figure 1.
Evolution of the OEF Mission




                                                     APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I 5
     OPERATION EPIC FURY




Major combat operations: Between February 28 and April 7, U.S. forces launched air and
ground-based strikes against a wide set of military targets in Iran.15 Admiral Brad Cooper,
the USCENTCOM Commander, testified in May that U.S. forces struck approximately                   USCENTCOM
13,500 targets. USCENTCOM reported that it conducted approximately 36,000 combat                  reported that
sorties and more than 1,800 fire missions.16                                                      it conducted
                                                                                                  approximately
Strikes during the major combat operations period targeted Iranian ballistic missile garrisons,   36,000 combat
Iranian air defense sites, storage sites for Iranian cruise missiles and unmanned aircraft        sorties and
systems (UAS), command-and-control centers, naval and naval mining assets, and Iran’s             more than
defense industrial base.17                                                                        1,800 fire
USCENTCOM operations also targeted Iranian assets threatening the SoH with strikes on             missions.
Iranian naval and coastal-defense targets. USCENTCOM conducted defensive counter-air
strikes against hostile air threats along the SoH, demonstration transits through the SoH, and
unmanned underwater vessel-based mine hunting operations.18

Mine countermeasure operations: U.S. mine countermeasures operations throughout the
reporting period sought to preserve freedom of navigation, protect international commercial
shipping, and deter adversary mining while enabling rapid response to suspected or
confirmed mine threats.19

April 7 ceasefire: The United States announced a ceasefire with Iran on April 7 to allow
for negotiations, while U.S. forces in the region remained postured to resume combat
operations.20 Vice President J.D. Vance led the U.S. delegation. Between April and June,
senior Pakistani leaders visited Iran to engage Iranian leadership to advance negotiations,
de-escalate hostilities, and reopen the SoH.21 As of June 30, the Pakistani government
continued its mediation role in U.S.-Iran negotiations.22

U.S. blockade of Iranian ports: On April 12, USCENTCOM announced a U.S. blockade,
beginning on April 13, of all maritime traffic entering and exiting Iranian ports and coastal
areas.23 The blockade line stretched from Oman to Iran’s southern coast near its border with
Pakistan. USCENTCOM said that from April 13 to June 18, U.S. forces redirected more than
140 compliant vessels, disabled 10 non-compliant ships through kinetic action, and allowed
more than 50 commercial vessels supporting humanitarian aid to pass through the blockade.24

Maritime interdiction operations: Operating as part of the blockade of Iranian ports and
under separate maritime interdiction authorities, U.S. forces intercepted, boarded, or disabled
vessels suspected of smuggling military contraband or evading sanctions outside the SoH
and Persian Gulf.25

Project Freedom: On May 4, three U.S. Navy guided-missile destroyers—the USS Truxtun,
USS Rafael Peralta, and USS Mason—transited the SoH to the Persian Gulf as part of
Project Freedom, designed to protect commercial vessels traveling through the SoH.26
On May 5, President Trump paused Project Freedom at the request of Pakistan and other
countries, saying at the time that the United States was close to an agreement with Iran to
cease hostilities.27




6   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026
                                                                    MISSION AND RESOURCES




                                                                                  President Donald J.
                                                                                  Trump signs a
                                                                                  Memorandum of
                                                                                  Understanding
                                                                                  between the Islamic
                                                                                  republic of Iran
                                                                                  and the United
                                                                                  States, with French
                                                                                  President Emmanuel
                                                                                  Macron observing,
                                                                                  at the Palace of
                                                                                  Versailles, France, on
                                                                                  June 17, 2026.
                                                                                  (State photo)




Memorandum of Understanding: On June 17, President Trump and Iranian President
Masoud Pezeshkian signed the “Islamabad Memorandum of Understanding” (MoU).
Pakistan’s Prime Minister, Shehbaz Sharif, signed the MoU as the primary mediator between
the United States and Iran, State reported.28

The MoU outlined terms between the United States and Iran related to safe navigation in the
SoH and proposed an initial 60-day window to negotiate a final deal, State said.29 The text
specified that Iran would make arrangements for the safe passage of commercial vessels to
transit the SoH “with no charge, for 60 days only.”30 According to State, the United States
and Iran also decided, outside of the MoU, to create a hotline between the United States and
Iranian militaries to coordinate traffic in and around the SoH.31

The United States ended its blockade of Iranian ports on June 18 following the signing of
the MoU, only to reinstate it on July 14 following Iranian strikes on commercial ships in
the SoH.32

Negotiations reach a stalemate: After the MoU was signed, Vice President Vance and
negotiators from Iran, Pakistan, and Qatar resumed negotiations in Switzerland that focused
on outstanding issues, including Iran’s nuclear program.33 Tensions rose in late June, when
Iran objected to a temporary proposal by Oman and the International Maritime Organization
to set up transit with no tolls or fees through the SoH near Oman’s coast to help ships depart
safely in accord with the MoU and international law.34 On June 25, Iran struck a Singapore-
flagged cargo vessel off the coast of Oman. USCENTCOM retaliated with strikes against Iran,
and the International Maritime Organization paused vessel evacuation plans for the Strait.35

U.S. commences defensive strikes: On July 7, Iran attacked three ships in the SoH, stating
they had not followed Iranian rules of transit. The attack prompted heavy U.S. counterstrikes.36
The same day, Treasury revoked a general license that had temporarily authorized the
production, delivery, and sale of Iranian petroleum products.37 On July 8, President Trump
declared the MoU was “over.”38 Within days, USCENTCOM resumed daily strike operations
against Iran.39


                                 APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I 7
     OPERATION EPIC FURY




FUNDING                                                                                            U.S. Navy Sailors
                                                                                                   conduct at-sea
                                                                                                   refueling on the
DEPARTMENT OF WAR                                                                                  flight deck of the
                                                                                                   USS Abraham Lincoln
The Office of the Under Secretary of War (Comptroller)/Chief Financial Officer (OUSW[C])           during OEF, on
                                                                                                   March 10, 2026.
estimated the cost of OEF to be $33.4 billion as of June 29. The estimate includes $7.4 billion
                                                                                                   (U.S. Navy photo)
of cumulative obligations for OEF, $22.3 billion for expended munitions, and $3.7 billion
in equipment losses. According to the OUSW(C), the estimate for expended munitions and
equipment losses were based on replacement cost.40 The OUSW(C) estimate did not include
costs for infrastructure repairs.41

Obligations: The $7.4 billion cumulative obligations for OEF represents incremental costs—
the expenses incurred for the contingency operation that exceed USCENTCOM’s normal
operations.42 Obligations are legally binding agreements or actions that will result in outlays,
immediately or in the future.43 Approximately 90 percent of obligations were categorized
as Operations and Maintenance, the appropriation category that funds day-to-day military
operations, troop support, and equipment upkeep.44 (See Figure 2.)

Disbursements: As of June 30, the DoW had disbursed $4.9 billion or 65 percent of obligated
funds. Of the disbursements, the five largest budget line items were for airlift operations
($929.6 million), the Flying Hour Program ($691.1 million), mission and other ship operations
($647.7 million), base support ($405.0 million), and maneuver units ($385.3 million).45

Open commitments: In addition, the DoW had $365.1 million in open commitments,
as of June 30.46 A “commitment” is an administrative reservation of allotted funds, or of


8   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026
                                                                                    MISSION AND RESOURCES




                 Figure 2.
                 OEF Obligations by Component and Appropriation Category, as of June 30, 2026




                 other funds, in anticipation of an obligation. Officials can commit funds only to acquire
                 goods, supplies, and services that meet the time, purpose, and amount for which Congress
                 appropriated funds, or bona fide needs of the period to replace stock used during that
                 period.47 On July 13, the DoW OIG announced an audit to a) determine whether DoW
                 Components are validating and managing open FY 2026 funding commitments supporting
                 OEF; and b) identify stale, invalid, or excess commitments eligible for immediate
                 cancellation and use for other critical, unfunded warfighter priorities.48

                 Challenges in calculating costs: Congress did not appropriate funds specifically for OEF
                 in FY 2026.49 Instead, the DoW Components have used base budget funds that otherwise
                 would be used for standard operational activities, such as planned training and maintenance
The absence      activities.50 The absence of a dedicated appropriation for OEF means that it can be difficult
                 to calculate the total “cost” of OEF. Speaking before Congress on May 12, the Acting DoW
of a dedicated
                 Comptroller stated that he was most confident about the cost of expended munitions.51 Costs
appropriation
                 of repairing damaged equipment, on the other hand, could change based on when and if assets
for OEF means
                 are replaced and contract pricing. In addition, he stated that an accurate estimate for repairs
that it can be
                 requires a full diagnostic review of aircraft and other damaged assets to understand the extent
difficult to     of damage.52
calculate the
total “cost”     The DoW did not include the cost of military construction for damaged infrastructure in its
of OEF.          estimate because the DoW has not determined what its future posture will be in the region,
                 how it will construct its bases, and what percentage of the construction costs Allies and



                                                 APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I 9
     OPERATION EPIC FURY




Table 1.
Department of War Supplemental Request, in $ Millions

 Category                                                                             Amount

 Munitions                                                                             $21,000

 Operational Costs                                                                     $17,300

 Other Classified Programs                                                             $12,100

 Cybersecurity and Autonomy                                                             $5,100

 Airborne Moving Target Indication and Space Data Network                               $4,000

 Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS)                                                        $2,400

 Readiness                                                                              $1,700

 Fuel                                                                                   $1,500

 Administration Priorities                                                              $1,200

 National Guard Support                                                                  $800

 TOTAL                                                                                $67,100
 Source: White House, letter to the Honorable Mike Johnson, 6/24/2026.


partners will contribute.53 The OUSW(C) stated that the estimate also does not account for
broader economic impacts, such as increased fuel prices, due to Iran’s closure of the SoH.

Supplemental funding request: During Congressional testimony on July 21, Secretary
Hegseth stated that without supplemental funds, the DoW could face critical shortfalls
that would threaten the DoW’s ability to pay Service members, replenish some of the
equipment and munitions consumed during contingency operations, and sustain vital global
operations.54

On June 24, the White House submitted to Congress a request for $87.6 billion in
                                                                                                 State reported
supplemental funding. This emergency supplemental funding request included $67.1 billion
                                                                                                 that as of
for the DoW, mostly to support needs for OEF.55 (See Table 1.)
                                                                                                 June 2, it had
                                                                                                 incurred
DEPARTMENT OF STATE                                                                              $113 million in
State reported that as of June 2, it had incurred $113 million in costs related to OEF and       costs related
stated that as it continues to assess damage, costs are likely to rise.56                        to OEF and
                                                                                                 stated that as
Emergency American citizen support: As of June 2, State charged $79.2 million to the             it continues to
Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service Fund to respond to contingencies              assess damage,
stemming from OEF, depleting the fund. The fund covered evacuation-related expenses for          costs are likely
State personnel and their family members, U.S. citizens, and eligible third-country nationals.
                                                                                                 to rise.
In addition, $1.3 million in Diplomatic Programs Ongoing Operations funds were used for
lodging and transportation costs.57


10   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026
                                                                                                   MISSION AND RESOURCES




                   Table 2.
                   Department of State Supplemental Request, in $ Millions

                    Category                                                                                                Amount

                    Diplomatic Programs                                                                                      $1,522

                    International Humanitarian Assistance                                                                      $800

                    Global Health Programs                                                                                     $550

                    Embassy Security, Construction, and Maintenance                                                            $300

                    Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service                                                         $190

                    TOTAL                                                                                                    $3,362
                    Source: White House, letter to the Honorable Mike Johnson, 6/24/2026.



                   Diplomatic mission damage: As of June 30, State estimated the damage to U.S. embassies,
                   consulates, and other diplomatic facilities resulting from the conflict to be about
                   $184 million.58 (See Table 6.)

                   State supplemental funding request: On June 24, State submitted an OEF supplemental
                   request that includes $100 million for emergency aid provided by the Diplomatic and
                   Consular Support Fund account.59 (See Table 2.)

                   The supplemental request also includes $300 million for State’s Bureau of Overseas Buildings
                   Operations. Although State’s Embassy Security, Construction, and Maintenance account has
                   sufficient liquidity to cover damages to facilities and contract delay costs, State will need to
                   redirect funds from other projects unless the requested supplemental is enacted.60

                   State’s Bureau of Diplomatic Security did not have sufficient funding to absorb costs
                   related to OEF. The supplemental request includes $1.4 billion for the Worldwide Security
                   Protection Program, including $850 million for airspace awareness and protection.61 State
                   also requested supplemental funding for the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs and the Post
                   Assignment Travel account to cover operational costs related to OEF.62
As of June 30,
State estimated
the damage to      PERSONNEL AND FORCE STRUCTURE
U.S. embassies,
consulates, and    U.S. FORCES IN SUPPORT OF OEF
other diplomatic   More than 50,000 U.S. Service Members were deployed throughout the USCENTCOM area
facilities         of responsibility (AOR) in support of OEF.63 Force flows continued into the region in the
resulting from     days after major combat operations began.64 USCENTCOM reported that force presence and
the conflict to    disposition have changed throughout the conflict.65
be about
                   USCENTCOM postured forces to deter an Iranian attempt to close the SoH, a key access
$184 million.
                   point for global oil and commercial shipping that Iran has historically threatened as leverage
                   against countries or parties that have disrupted its interests.66


                                                            APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026     I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I 11
     OPERATION EPIC FURY




Assets: At the height of conflict, U.S. forces supporting OEF included more than a dozen each
of fighter squadrons, destroyers, and air defense batteries, as well as Terminal High Altitude
Area Defense (THAAD) ballistic missile defense batteries, High Mobility Artillery Rocket            At the height
System (HIMARS), and a partial deployment of the 82nd Airborne Division. Additional                 of conflict,
counter-UAS systems and air defense teams also deployed to bases throughout the region.67           U.S. forces
                                                                                                    supporting OEF
USCENTCOM positioned air and maritime assets to create a layered operational framework              included more
that included carrier strike group forces, escort combatants, submarines, persistent ISR,           than a dozen
defensive counter-air, and staged mine countermeasure assets.68                                     each of fighter
U.S. maritime forces: Two carrier strike groups supported OEF throughout the quarter,
                                                                                                    squadrons,
along with their embarked carrier air wings and accompanying destroyer squadrons.69                 destroyers,
USS Abraham Lincoln provided the initial carrier presence, and the USS Gerald R. Ford               and air defense
arrived in late February.70 The USS George H.W. Bush arrived in late April, briefly overlapping     batteries,
with the USS Gerald R. Ford in theater, but only to support turnover and maintain continuous        as well as
two-carrier coverage without a gap in combat power, USCENTCOM said.71 The USS Gerald                Terminal High
R. Ford returned to its home port in Norfolk, Virginia, on May 16, after a 326-day deployment       Altitude Area
that saw service in the North Sea, the Mediterranean Sea, the Caribbean Sea, and the Red Sea.72     Defense ballistic
                                                                                                    missile defense
Two Marine Expeditionary Units also supported OEF, along with their embarked forces, and            batteries,
associated air and other combat support teams and equipment.73                                      High Mobility
Medical support: USCENTCOM developed an integrated healthcare system for U.S. forces
                                                                                                    Artillery Rocket
supporting OEF that leveraged host nation capabilities. Every U.S. military basing location in      System, and
the region had at least Role 1 care (initial emergency and trauma treatment). Role 2 surgical       a partial
capable units (more advanced emergency care) were established at bases in Jordan, Iraq,             deployment
Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Israel, and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) with additional units afloat       of the 82nd
in the Red Sea and North Arabian Sea. For all U.S. forces in the USCENTCOM AOR, Role 3              Airborne
care (advanced, hospital level care) was only available through host nation hospitals.74            Division.

U.S. forces relied on host nation hospitals for Role 3 care due to the resource and force
protection challenges of establishing deployable hospitals in the region that would require
a 6.5- to 11-acre footprint. USCENTCOM asserted that it was impractical to establish these
largely immobile facilities across the USCENTCOM AOR when host nation hospitals were
readily available near U.S. bases.75

Army rotary wing medical evacuation coverage was available in Syria, Jordan, Iraq, and
Kuwait at the beginning of OEF, but these assets moved out of Kuwait and Iraq due to force
protection considerations after Iranian strikes. Due to the nature of operations during OEF,
most medical evacuations have been carried out by ground, including local ambulances, to
local treatment facilities as well as fixed-wing aeromedical evacuation out of theater for higher
levels of care.76

U.S. BASING AND DISPOSITION
USCENTCOM reported that it designed its force distribution for OEF to sustain combat
power while considering taking into account Iranian ballistic missiles, one-way unmanned
aircraft systems (OWUAS), and maritime threats.77 During OEF, USCENTCOM shifted
personnel, assets, and storage facilities as locations came under Iranian and proxy attacks.78

12   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026
                                                                                                              MISSION AND RESOURCES




                                USCENTCOM said that it constantly evaluated the threat to base and force locations as
                                the threat level evolved throughout the campaign, and adjusted counter-UAS and other air
U.S. Forces flew                defense assets’ location, placement, and posture based on that assessment. USCENTCOM
as many as                      convened decision boards to provide recommendations to the air defense commander for the
5,000 sorties in                appropriate adjustments.79
support of OEF
from European                   The Office for the Undersecretary of War for Policy (OUSW[P]) said that partners in the
bases, according                Middle East and Europe provided significant access, basing, and overflight permission to
to the NATO                     execute OEF.80 U.S. Forces flew as many as 5,000 sorties in support of OEF from European
Secretary-                      bases, according to the NATO Secretary-General.81
General.
                                LOGISTICS AND SUSTAINMENT
                                Moving assets to the USCENTCOM AOR: The U.S. Transportation Command
                                (USTRANSCOM) was responsible for global lift and logistics support to theater, as well as
                                aircraft flushing—the rapid removal of air assets from an area under attack or threat.82

                                To support OEF, USTRANSCOM projected and sustained combat power by executing
                                continuous worldwide deployment, sustainment, and maneuver of joint military forces and
                                resources, the movement of heavy equipment and large numbers of personnel, and secure
                                distribution capabilities. (See Table 3.) Key tasks included tracking movement requirements
                                for general cargo, personnel, and munitions, and phasing capabilities to align with
                                USCENTCOM posture requirements.83

                                Additionally, USTRANSCOM executed tactical lane realignments for force protection.
                                This included restructuring cargo channels to consolidate and expand throughput to
                                Prince Sultan Air Base in Saudi Arabia, and redirecting personnel traffic through the
                                USCENTCOM AOR.84

                                As of June 30, Transportation Working Capital Fund obligations in support of OEF totaled
                                $2.36 billion. While these obligations have been largely reimbursed by the Military Services
                                to date, USTRANSCOM reported that it anticipates delayed payments moving forward as
                                Service funding is depleted without a supplemental appropriation.85
Table 3.
USTRANSCOM Volume and Movements during OEF

 Air Movements             • Conducted more than 1,500 air missions.
                           • During peak OEF times, airlift surged to 30 to 40 daily missions directly into the USCENTCOM AOR, with
                              an additional 20 to 30 daily aircraft pushing into the USEUCOM AOR for transload operations.

 Surface                   • Transported approximately 300,000 square feet of cargo across a number of vessels to support
 Movements                    regional operations.

 Commercial                • The volume of commercial cargo during OEF surged from 9,000 to 74,000 cases—or 2 million pounds—
 Cargo                        monthly, a 722 percent surge.
                           • USTRANSCOM made rapid operational adjustments to preserve handling efficiency and maintain
                              security, including the adjustment of established transport routes.
 Source: USTRANSCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information, 26.3 OEF 014, 7/27/2026.




                                                                         APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I 13
     OPERATION EPIC FURY




Regional logistics: Prior to OEF, Bahrain had been U.S. Navy Central’s (USNAVCENT)
main logistics hub to sustain operations in the Persian Gulf region, USCENTCOM said.
During major combat operations, Iran targeted Bahrain with OWUAS and ballistic missile           At least six
strikes.86 USCENTCOM stated that it initially shifted naval sustainment resources from           U.S. warships
Bahrain to alternate hubs.                                                                       were re-tasked
                                                                                                 from the
USCENTCOM reported that it selected new logistics support hubs in places where it                Pacific to the
could expand capacity to support fuel, munitions, the repair of parts, and access to the         Middle East to
necessary sea and aerial ports of debarkation necessary to transfer the goods to meet            support OEF.
fleet requirements.87 USCENTCOM coordinated with the Defense Logistics Agency
and other combatant commands for sustainment enablers such as additional commercial
or government-chartered tankers and oiler vessels outfitted for consolidated cargo
replenishment-at-sea, as well as air transportation and support crew.88

The establishment of adequate naval bases and support ports posed significant challenges
before and during OEF, arising from complexities and due to uncertainties with host nation
access permissions to utilize ports for fleet resupply, USCENTCOM said.89

An issue with shifting logistics support and infrastructure to Diego Garcia has been distance,
with extended sea transit requiring 14- to 18-day logistics cycles, USCENTCOM said.90

COMBATANT COMMAND SUPPORT TO OEF
Multiple U.S. combatant commands provided support to OEF.91

The U.S. European Command (USEUCOM): USEUCOM served as a principal enabler
for USCENTCOM operations and the European AOR served as the launch platform and
sustainment backbone for OEF.92 USEUCOM basing, logistics, and access networks also
enabled rapid employment of forces into the USCENTCOM AOR. USEUCOM reported that
it transferred munitions, equipment, aircraft and personnel, and requisitioned and distributed
fuel, food, and medical supplies.93 The Command enabled the storage and distribution of
munitions, ensured operational readiness by maintaining warfighting assets, and served
as a reception and staging area for forward deploying personnel and evacuating civilians
and military families.94 USEUCOM also provided basing, global lift support (heavy cargo
and personnel transport), and was responsible for a contingency plan for noncombatant
evacuation operations from Lebanon, should that become necessary.95

In addition, USEUCOM secured key bases as well as sea and air lines of communications
critical to deployment and sustainment operations in support of OEF. Forward-deployed
joint USEUCOM capabilities operating in the European theater—including advanced fighter
aircraft, ballistic missile defense destroyers, and forward-deployed air and missile defense
and counter-UAS systems—protected the joint force from threats emanating from Iran and
its proxies.96

The U.S. Pacific Command (USPACOM): USPACOM provided support to OEF maritime
interdiction operations and blockade support and maritime ship tracking.97 At least six
U.S. warships were re-tasked from the Pacific to the Middle East to support OEF. This
included the Abraham Lincoln carrier strike group and components of the Japan-based



14   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026
                                                                                       MISSION AND RESOURCES




                   Tripoli Amphibious Ready Group, with the embarked 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit.98
                   Naval Support Facility Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean provided sustainment resources for
USCYBERCOM         the U.S. Navy as the conflict unfolded.99
and
USSPACECOM         The U.S. Cyber Command (USCYBERCOM) and U.S. Space Command (USSPACECOM):
provided non-      USCYBERCOM and USSPACECOM provided non-kinetic effects on selected targets, as
kinetic effects    well as monitoring electromagnetic warfare interference and jamming sources over Iran.100
on selected        Speaking during a press conference on March 2, General Caine said that coordinated space
targets, as well   and cyber operations against Iran, beginning on the first days of combat operations, disrupted
as monitoring      communications and sensor networks, leaving Iran “without the ability to see, coordinate, or
electromagnetic    respond effectively.”101
warfare            The U.S. Strategic Command (USSTRATCOM): USSTRATCOM provided global strike
interference       capabilities from the continental United States and other forward basing as required.102 This
and jamming        included dozens of 2,000-pound penetrating guided bombs, which were dropped on deeply
sources            buried missile launchers across Iran’s southern flank in the first 11 days of combat, according
over Iran.         to General Caine.103

                   REGIONAL PARTNERSHIPS
                   Israel: During OEF, the United States partnered with Israeli forces, coordinating OEF
                   activities with Israel’s Operation Roaring Lion, which had similar objectives.104 The
                   U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, Mike Waltz, said that the United States cooperated
                   with Israel to take “necessary and appropriate” actions in support of Israel’s self-defense as
                   reflected in Article 51 of the UN charter.105

                   Coordinated air and missile defense with Israel was also substantial, with U.S. Patriot
                   and THAAD systems operating alongside Israeli Arrow, David’s Sling, and Iron Dome
                   systems. The United States and Israel maintained shared awareness and recurring reporting
                   on readiness and intercept activity via embedded liaison officers in the Israeli military
                   headquarters in Tel Aviv, known as HaKirya.106

                   Regional self-defense: As Iran targeted its neighbors in response to OEF, impacting
                   numerous military and civilian targets.107 The OUSW(P) said that the United States has been
                   helping grow the sovereign military defense of Gulf partners for decades to counter Iranian
                   attacks and safeguard regional stability. This has included the provision of military sales,
                   training, and information-sharing to Gulf partners.108

                   The OUSW(P) said that Gulf partners demonstrated significant air defense capabilities in
                   response to Iranian attacks, collectively intercepting thousands of Iranian missiles and UASs.
                   U.S. forces embedded in partner air operations centers across the region, which supported
                   coordination, deconfliction, and synchronization of air defense efforts.109 The Middle East
                   Defense network—an integrated missile defense architecture in the region—intercepted
                   more than 6,000 OWUAS and more than 1,500 ballistic missiles that targeted U.S. and
                   partner forces.110




                                                  APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I 15
     OPERATION EPIC FURY




U.S. LOSSES AND
                                                                                                 U.S. Army Soldiers
                                                                                                 conduct operations
                                                                                                 in the U.S. Central


SUSTAINMENT
                                                                                                 Command area of
                                                                                                 responsibility during
                                                                                                 OEF, on March 27,
                                                                                                 2026. (U.S. Army
During major combat operations, Iran and its proxies launched thousands of missiles and          photo)
one-way UAS (OWUAS) against regional states, commercial shipping, and U.S. military
bases and ships.111


U.S. MILITARY PERSONNEL
The DoW reported that from February 28 to June 30, seven U.S. Service members were killed
in action and seven were killed in non-hostile events during OEF combat operations. During
the same period, 417 service members were wounded in action. Four additional Service
members were killed in action in July.112 (See Table 4.)


EXPENDED MUNITIONS
The Office of the Under Secretary for Acquisition and Sustainment (OUSW[A&S]) said
that the munitions expenditure in OEF has resulted in strategic inventory shortfalls and
revealed industrial base bottlenecks for munitions resupply. To mitigate these constraints,
the OUSW(A&S) said that the DoW is working to streamline procurement processes and
production lead times, and to stockpile critical materials, components, and selected munitions
to respond rapidly to a contingency.113


16   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026
                                                                                U.S. LOSSES AND SUSTAINMENT




Table 4.
U.S. Forces Deaths during OEF

                                                                                Killed in       Non-hostile
 Incident                                                                         Action            Deaths                   TOTAL

 Port Shuaiba, Kuwait (March 1)                                                           6                   ―                        6

 Saudi Arabia (March 1)                                                                   1                   ―                        1

 KC-135 Crash, Iraq (March 12)                                                           ―                     6                       6

 MH-60S Helicopter Crash, Arabian Sea (July 1)                                           ―                     1                       1

 Muwaffaq al-Salti Air Base, Jordan (July 17)                                             3                   ―                        3

 Erbil Air Base, Iraq (July 19)                                                           1                   ―                        1

 TOTAL                                                                                  11                     7                      18
 Note: The Defense Casualty Analysis System lists all casualties before July 7 as part of OEF, while casualties after this date are
 identified as having occurred during “overseas operations.” Data as of August 26, 2026.
 Source: Defense Casualty Analysis System, “Operation Epic Fury (OEFU)” and “Overseas Operations,” accessed 8/27/2026.

DoW efforts prioritize accelerating active production lines, leveraging statutory authorities
to expand industrial base facility capacity, securing critical supply chains, and integrating
with allied partners to offset U.S. inventory drawdowns, the OUSW(A&S) said.114 While
the DoW has begun to implement mitigation strategies, the defense industrial base requires
“significant lead time” to expand production capacities, the OUSW(A&S) said.115 The most
persistent bottlenecks remain in the production of solid rocket motors, the availability of




                                                                                                           U.S. Sailors conduct
                                                                                                           a routine ordnance
                                                                                                           inspection on the
                                                                                                           flight deck of the
                                                                                                           USS Gerald R. Ford,
                                                                                                           on March 17, 2026.
                                                                                                           (U.S. Navy photo)



                                            APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026         I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I 17
     OPERATION EPIC FURY




high-grade explosives and propellants, and the recruitment of skilled manufacturing labor. The
OUSW(A&S) said that the DoW is working on reallocating funding to alleviate constraints
and chokepoints as they arise.116

The Congressional Research Service noted that the volume and financial cost of
U.S. munitions expended during OEF directly illustrate the magnitude and complexity of the
target set posed by Iran. Iran has the largest armed forces in the region and spent decades of
intense focus developing and expanding its own domestic defense industry.117 Iran has also
focused heavily on passive defense measures to protect its military capabilities, including
extensive underground facilities, dispersal of munitions inventories, concealment and
deception to mask equipment, and mobile launch platforms.118


U.S. MILITARY FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT
USCENTCOM reported that Iranian strikes damaged and destroyed hundreds of buildings and
structures at U.S. bases in Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Oman, and
Jordan during the conflict.119 In addition, dozens of U.S. aircraft were destroyed or damaged
during OEF.120 (See Table 5.)

Table 5.
U.S. Aircraft Damaged or Destroyed During OEF

 Platform                                                     Damage

 F-15E                                                        4 destroyed (3 from friendly fire and 1 from enemy fire)

 F-35A                                                        1 damaged due to enemy fire over Iran

 A-10                                                         1 destroyed, jettisoned due to damage on return from CSAR mission

 KC-135 refueling aircraft                                    7 damaged or destroyed (1 damaged and 1 destroyed in collision over Iraq,
                                                              5 damaged or destroyed on the ground in Saudi Arabia by Iranian munitions)

 E-3 airborne early-warning-and-control                       1 damaged on the ground in Saudi Arabia by Iranian strikes
 system

 HH-60W helicopter                                            1 damaged during CSAR operations

 MQ-4C high-altitude long-endurance                           1 reported crashed
 uncrewed aircraft

 AH-6 helicopter                                              4 destroyed by U.S. forces as unrecoverable during CSAR operations

 AH-64 helicopter                                             1 shot down over the SoH

 MH-60 helicopter                                             1 crashed over the Arabian Sea

 MQ-9 ISR                                                     As many as 30 destroyed in various circumstances.
 Source: Congressional Research Service, “U.S. Aircraft Combat Losses in Operation Epic Fury: Considerations for Congress,” 5/13/2026; USCENTCOM, vetting
 comment, 8/24/2026.




18   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026
                                                                                                    U.S. LOSSES AND SUSTAINMENT




                                    U.S. DIPLOMATIC FACILITIES
U.S. diplomatic                     U.S. diplomatic facilities in four countries suffered physical damage from Iranian strikes,
facilities in                       with an estimated total cost of about $184 million.121 (See Table 6.) In addition, State reported
four countries                      an estimated $24.5 million per month in construction project delays due to ordered departures
suffered                            and travel restrictions in Baghdad, Jerusalem, Tel Aviv, Cairo, Amman, Kuwait City, and
physical damage                     Muscat.122   
from Iranian
strikes, with an                    Iraq: Mission Iraq experienced more than 600 attacks during the reporting period. The
estimated total                     U.S. Consulate General in Erbil’s new consulate compound suffered damage to multiple
cost of about                       buildings. The U.S. Embassy in Baghdad suffered damage but to a lesser extent. The Baghdad
$184 million.                       Diplomatic Support Compound, located near Baghdad International Airport, suffered
                                    extensive damage, but the facility was already in the process of closing due to a decision that
                                    was made before the current conflict began.123

                                    Kuwait: On March 5, the U.S. Embassy in Kuwait City suspended operations due to
                                    “regional tensions,” strikes, and damage to embassy facilities. Attacks forced the embassy’s
                                    immediate closure and personnel departures.124 On June 24, Secretary of State Marco Rubio
                                    traveled to Kuwait and reopened the embassy, which resumed providing limited emergency
                                    services for U.S. citizens as well as consular support. However, as of June 30, the majority of
                                    embassy staff remained on ordered departure, State reported.125

                                    Saudi Arabia: On March 3, two Iranian OWUAS struck the U.S. Embassy in Riyadh,
                                    causing material damage. After the attack, the embassy issued an order to “shelter-in-place”
                                    to staff in Jeddah, Riyadh, and Dhahran and warned the public to “avoid the Embassy until
                                    further notice due to an attack on the facility.” Embassy guidance noted threats against
                                    locations where American citizens gather and advised U.S. citizens that hotels and other
                                    gathering points, including U.S. educational institutions, may be potential targets.126

                                    UAE: The U.S. Consulate General in Dubai sustained damage to a utility building, State
                                    reported.127

Table 6.                                                        Host Country Support: State said that most host country
Estimated Damage to Diplomatic                                  governments in the Middle East provided support for State
Missions Since the Start of OEF, in                             diplomatic facilities. Support included additional host country
$ Millions, as of June 30                                       personnel assigned to State’s diplomatic facilities and protection
                                                                programs.128 In late March, Mission Iraq criticized the Iraqi
 Country                                                 Cost   government for failing to take action to prevent Iran-aligned militia
                                                                attacks against diplomatic facilities since the start of OEF.129 Since
 Iraq                                               $157.35     then, the Iraqi government has shown stronger support for Mission
 Kuwait                                               $14.75    Iraq, State said.130

 Saudi Arabia                                         $11.50

 UAE                                                  $0.125
 Note: U.S. diplomatic facilities in Bahrain, Israel, Jordan,
 Lebanon, and Oman did not sustain any damage.
 Source: State, response to State OIG request for
 information, 7/27/2026.




                                                                      APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I 19
     OPERATION EPIC FURY




U.S. DIPLOMATIC PERSONNEL
Iranian strikes in the Middle East resulted in the departure of U.S. diplomatic personnel and   Between
family members, evacuations of U.S. citizens, and damage to and closure of some                 February 23
U.S. diplomatic facilities during the reporting period, State reported.131                      and June 30,
                                                                                                the maximum
Between February 23 and March 3, 12 U.S. missions in the Middle East and Europe initiated       number of
requests for staff to go on authorized departure or ordered departure. By June 30, nine         diplomatic
missions remained on ordered departure—with personnel and families returning to post only       personnel who
at the U.S. Consulate General in Adana, Türkiye, and the U.S. Embassy in Nicosia, Cyprus.       were either
The U.S. Embassy in Kuwait City, which suspended operations on March 5, reopened in             on authorized
June. However, most of the embassy staff remained on ordered departure.132                      or ordered
Between February 23 and June 30, the maximum number of diplomatic personnel who were            departure, or
either on authorized or ordered departure, or already out of the country was approximately      already out of
3,500. Those numbers varied from 51 in Lebanon to 976 in the UAE.133 In most                    the country was
circumstances, the departure orders did not apply to third-party contractors.134                approximately
                                                                                                3,500.
All embassy services in the region were affected during OEF, depending on the severity of
hostility directed toward particular posts, State reported. In all cases, posts maintained a
minimum of emergency services for American citizens, including support provided remotely
and by neighboring posts. Some posts were also able to maintain limited immigrant visa and
non-immigrant visa services throughout the period of reduced operations.135 However, several
facilities closed or suspended operations in March, including the U.S. embassies in Baghdad,
Beirut, Kuwait City, and Riyadh, and the consulates in Erbil and Peshawar. 136




20   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026
                                                                   U.S. DIPLOMATIC AND ECONOMIC ACTIVITY




State reported
                     U.S. DIPLOMATIC AND
after major
combat               ECONOMIC ACTIVITY
operations
began, it directly
arranged for the
                     ASSISTANCE TO U.S. CITIZENS
departure of         On March 2, Secretary Rubio urged Americans to “depart now” from 14 countries in the
approximately        Middle East using available commercial transportation, due to “serious safety risks.”137
9,000 Americans      State reported after major combat operations began, it directly arranged for the departure of
abroad, offering     approximately 9,000 Americans abroad, offering security information, travel assistance, and
security             chartering 56 flights in addition to buses to safely evacuate thousands of U.S. citizens from
information,         the Middle East.138
travel               As of June 30, State travel advisories for Bahrain, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi
assistance,          Arabia, and the UAE remained at Level 3 (Reconsider Travel) and State travel advisories for
and chartering       Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Syria, and Yemen remained at Level 4 (Do Not Travel).139
56 flights in
addition to          Consular outreach and coordination: State’s Middle East Task Force, which operated 24/7
buses to safely      through the end of March, coordinated crisis-related support to U.S. citizens and consular
evacuate             messaging.140 Separately, State’s Consular Coordination group prepared boarding lists for
thousands of         assisted departure flights, urged U.S. citizens to depart on their own and provided updated
U.S. citizens        information on border crossing regulations and availability.141 State’s 24/7 call center handled
from the             public inquiries and remained in place as of June 30.142
Middle East.         Logistics: On February 28, State established a Middle East Task Force Logistics Cell
                     to secure aviation capabilities across DoW aircraft and commercial charters and deliver
                     evacuation services for Chief of Mission personnel and U.S. citizens. The logistics cell
                     included senior officials from State, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the Centers for
                     Disease Control and Prevention, the Central Intelligence Agency, the Defense Logistics
                     Agency, DoW’s Air Mobility Liaison Officers, State Diplomatic Security’s Air Evacuation
                     Unit, and the Federal Aviation Administration. The cell also tracked commercial flight
                     availability to facilitate dedicated seats and monitored airspace closures to sustain
                     uninterrupted access for U.S. operations.143

                     State said that it used commercial charter companies to facilitate departures from affected
                     countries where environments were permissive for commercial operations.144 In non-
                     permissive environments, such as Baghdad, Iraq, the U.S. Government used military aircraft
                     for departures of Chief of Mission personnel, U.S. citizens, and third-country nationals.145

                     In addition to air transportation, State reported that it worked closely with regional partners to
                     arrange charter buses to facilitate departures from affected areas. These included movements
                     from Bahrain, Kuwait, and Qatar to Saudi Arabia, as well as from Israel to Egypt and
                     Jordan.146




                                                     APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I 21
     OPERATION EPIC FURY




Table 7.
Approximate Number of U.S. Citizens Evacuated Due to OEF

                        Number of
 Country              U.S. Citizens         Destination(s)                                                                                          Cost

 Armenia                              3     USA                                                                                                   $2,000
 Bahrain                            16      Riyadh                                                                                                   N/A
 Cyprus                               0     N/A                                                                                                  $39,500
 Iraq                              N/A      Amman, Cyprus, Athens                                                                              $3,453,518
 Israel                          6,500      Sofia, Athens, Amman, Taba, Miami, New York, Los Angeles                                            $158,026
 Jordan                             50      Athens, Washington                                                                                 $2,412,000
 Kuwait                            157      Riyadh                                                                                                   N/A
 Oman                              200      Washington, Athens                                                                                  $675,000
 Qatar                             850      Sofia, Athens, Riyadh                                                                                    N/A
 Saudi Arabia                      100      Istanbul, Athens, Washington                                                                        $675,000
 Türkiye                              0     Türkiye assisted evacuations from other countries                                                    $85,300
 UAE                             1,200      Istanbul, Athens, Washington                                                                       $4,107,988
 Note: All evacuations for Bahrain and Kuwait were carried out from Saudi Arabia the costs are included in the Saudi Arabia evacuation cost.
 Source: State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026; State, vetting comment, 8/25/2026.

Consular flyaway teams of additional State consular officers deployed to the region to assist
with consular operations and flights. Flyaway team members were equipped with mobile
technology to assist in areas with low connectivity and brought additional consular supplies,
such as blank emergency passport books and documents, to the region.147

U.S. citizen evacuations: State said that it evacuated approximately 9,000 private
U.S. citizens from countries in the Middle East and Europe, at a total cost of $11.6 million
during the reporting period.148 (See Table 7.) While some flights evacuated private
U.S. citizens directly to the United States, others arrived in third countries for transit onward
to the United States if that was their preference.149 State determined that consular officers
would not be able to fully document travel itineraries required to seek reimbursement from
evacuees and therefore it would be impracticable to seek reimbursement from them.150

State noted that several citizens did not take evacuation flights because of ineligibility of
non‑U.S. citizen immediate family members, difficult or inconvenient flight times, and
luggage and pet restrictions.151 State said that given the large number of no-show passengers,
more seats were available than the number of U.S. citizens who ultimately arrived for
each flight.152




22   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026
                                                                       U.S. DIPLOMATIC AND ECONOMIC ACTIVITY




                         ECONOMIC FURY
                         Economic Fury (or “Operation Economic Fury”) refers to economic-related actions that
                         complement U.S. actions in OEF.153 Economic Fury targets Iran’s ability to generate, move,
                         and repatriate funds.154 This includes specific Iranian individuals and institutions that support
                         the regime, as well as organizations, companies, individuals, and vessels that support Iran’s
                         economy through the sale and purchase of crude oil and petrochemical industry, including
                         Iran’s vast “shadow fleet” of tankers that transport illicit oil and shadow banking networks.
                         Economic Fury also targeted Iranian weapons procurement networks, as well as satellite
                         imagery providers responsible for enabling Iran’s military strikes against U.S. forces.155

                         U.S. diplomatic actions: Between January 1 and June 30, the United States engaged in a
                         sustained diplomatic campaign across multiple United Nations (UN) forums to promote
                         compliance with reinstated sanctions on Iran and counter obstruction by some UN Security
U.S. forces patrol
                         Council Member States, State reported.156
the Arabian Sea
near M/V Touska, on      Sanctions and designations: Between January 1 and June 30, State and Treasury took
April 20, 2026, after    actions against Iran and its proxies, including designating or blocking more than a thousand
the Iranian-flagged      individuals, entities, and vessels, as well as identifying hundreds of millions of dollars’ worth
vessel attempted to
                         of blocked assets.157 Since February, State sanctioned 111 entities, 13 individuals, and
violate the U.S. naval
blockade. (U.S. Navy     68 vessels for engagement in the Iranian energy and financial sectors.158 (See Table 9
photo)                   on page 29.)




                                                         APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I 23
     OPERATION EPIC FURY




Exceptions to sanctions: In response to global market conditions and at the Administration’s
direction, Treasury issued General Licenses U and X in March and June, respectively. General
License X, which temporarily authorized the sale of Iranian-origin oil, petroleum, and in the
case of General License X, petrochemical products.159 General License X would have been valid
through August 21, though on July 7, Treasury replaced General License X with General License
X1, which revoked and superseded General License X in its entirety, but allowed parties to only
conduct transactions necessary to “wind down” activities related to the sale, delivery, or offloading
of crude oil, petrochemical products, or petroleum products of Iranian origin until July 17.160
Payments on those transactions were made into a blocked account in the United States.161

Countering Iranian Proxies: State said that it used all tools at its disposal to counter Iranian
support of its proxies, including sanctions, coordinating through multilateral fora—like the
Countering Transnational Terrorism Forum and the Law Enforcement Coordination Group—
and working bilaterally with partners and allies.162 On April 17, State announced terrorist
designations against seven commanders of Iran-aligned militia groups involved in attacks
threatening U.S. personnel, facilities, and interests in Iraq.163 (See Table 8.)

Rewards for Justice: State offered a reward of up to $10 million for information on the
whereabouts of Iran’s Supreme Leader, Mojtaba Khamenei, and other Iranian leaders.164 As of the
end of the reporting period, State reported that it had paused any upcoming Rewards for Justice
actions due to the implementation of the MoU and the 60-day negotiating period.165

Financial intelligence: Treasury said that it continued to provide ongoing support to interagency
law enforcement and national security partners, including analyzing Bank Secrecy Act data to
identify potential Iran-related activity (for example, funding streams and procurement networks
supporting Iran’s military and Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps and financial activity potentially
benefiting Iran proxy groups).166

Treasury also worked to identify and outline risks associated with Iranian illicit activity to private
sector stakeholders to ensure they are providing high-quality reporting on this topic.167 Treasury
routinely engages foreign counterparts to increase awareness and advise them of illicit Iranian
finance, sanctions evasion, and secondary sanctions exposure. These efforts include engaging
with foreign jurisdictions to encourage stronger anti-money laundering and financing of terrorism
controls and targeted disruptions against Iranian illicit finance or sanctions evasion networks.168


FOREIGN MILITARY SALES
State reported that Secretary Rubio made three emergency determinations under the Arms
Export Control Act to expedite urgently needed defense systems to regional partners, totaling
$25.32 billion.169 As part of State’s certification process, State’s Bureau of Political-Military
Affairs confirmed “no adverse impact” on U.S. defense readiness as a result of the sales State
approved.170

In addition to emergency arms sales (that bypass standard congressional review), State reported
its intent to sell an additional $19.19 billion in non-emergency arms to regional partners.
(See Table 8.) In some cases, because of OEF requirements, the U.S. Government held or
postponed delivery of defense articles purchased by other partners or allies, which led to some
domestic political friction, State reported.171


24   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026
                                                                                              U.S. DIPLOMATIC AND ECONOMIC ACTIVITY


Table 8.
Emergency and Non-Emergency Arms Sales for Allies and Partners in the Middle East, January-June 2026

                                                                                                                                               Total Cost
 Country                    Date of Sale         Weapon(s)                                                                                    ($ Billions)

                            January 30           Joint Light Tactical Vehicle (JLTV)172                                                            $1.98

                            January 30           AH-64E Apache Helicopters173                                                                        3.80

                            January 30           Namer Armored Personnel Carrier Power Packs174                                                      0.74
 Israel
                            January 30           AW119Kx Light Utility Helicopters175                                                                0.15

                            March 6              *Munitions and Munitions Support176                                                                 0.15

                            May 1                *Advanced Precision Kill Weapon System to buy 10,000 APKWS-II All                                  0.99
                                                  Up Round177

 ISRAEL TOTAL                                                                                                                                      $7.81

                            February 26          Ku Band Multi- Function Radio Frequency System Radar178                                           $0.28
 Jordan
                            March 19             *Aircraft repair, return, and spares179                                                             0.07

 JORDAN TOTAL                                                                                                                                      $0.35

                            March 19             *Air and Missile Defense Radars180                                                                  8.00

                            May 1                *Integrated Battle Command System181                                                                2.50
 Kuwait
                            June 5               Counter-Unmanned Aerial Systems Platforms and related equipment182                                0.002

                            June 15              KC-130J Aircraft Follow-on Sustainment Support183                                                   0.24

 KUWAIT TOTAL                                                                                                                                     $10.74

                            May 1                *Advanced Precision Kill Weapons System184                                                          0.99
 Qatar
                            May 1                *Patriot Missile Replenishment185                                                                   4.01

 QATAR TOTAL                                                                                                                                       $5.00

                            January 30           Patriot Advanced Capability-3 Missile Segment Enhancement Missiles186                               9.00
 Saudi Arabia
                            February 3           F-15 Sustainment187                                                                                 3.00

 SAUDI ARABIA TOTAL                                                                                                                               $12.00

                            March 19             *Long-Range Discrimination Radar with Terminal High Altitude Defense                             $4.50
                                                   Integration188

                            March 19             *Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missiles (AMRAAMS)189                                             1.22

 UAE                        March 19             *Fixed Site-Low, Slow, Small Unmanned Aircraft Integrated Defeat                                   2.10
                                                   System190

                            March 19             *F-16 Munitions and Upgrades191                                                                     0.64

                            May 1                *Advanced Precision Kill Weapons System192                                                          0.15

 UAE TOTAL                                                                                                                                         $8.61

 TOTAL SALES                                                                                                                                      $44.51
 *Emergency sales that bypass congressional review. Table total may differ from the narrative due to rounding.


                                                                             APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026         I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I 25
     OPERATION EPIC FURY




IMPACT ON U.S. FOREIGN ASSISTANCE
Security threats associated with OEF had an immediate negative impact on U.S. assistance
awards across the Middle East in the areas of agriculture, food, livelihood, health, nutrition,
protection, shelter, infrastructure, and water, sanitation, and hygiene assistance.193 Across
the region, the ordered departure of embassy staff made coordination and cooperation with
implementers more challenging.194 The United States did not have any active assistance
programs inside Iran, though it funds programs that target Iran from outside its borders,
including through broadcasting.195

State reported that its implementers continued to provide emergency assistance, pivoting
as needed to meet humanitarian needs driven by emerging crises.196 According to State,
OEF significantly disrupted award timelines and operational capacity, halted fieldwork,
monitoring, activities, and limited participant engagement due to regional instability.197
Disruptions primarily occurred in Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, and Lebanon. Program staff worked
to reschedule events, including those that target American business opportunities, with the
potential to move events to countries less affected by the conflict, such as Morocco and
Tunisia. In some cases, new Middle East Regional Cooperation projects were impacted by
institution-level sensitivities associated with regional cooperation with Israel.198




                  U.S. Broadcasting into Iran
                  The U.S. Agency for Global Media (USAGM) reported that its FY 2026 program plan budgeted
                  $18.6 million for Iran-related programs: $10.9 million for Voice of America (VOA) Persian
                  programs, $4.2 million for Radio Farda, and $3.4 million for a transmitting station in Kuwait.199

                  VOA Persian: Programming includes a 24/7 satellite TV channel, radio simulcast, a multimedia
                  website, and six branded social media platforms. VOA Persian consistently ranks among the top
                  three Iran broadcasters, with digital platforms showing strong growth, according to USAGM.200
                  During the reporting period, VOA Persian’s social media audience reached 10.2 million followers,
                  adding 480,000 new followers—a 5.1 percent increase over the previous period, USAGM stated.201

                  Radio Farda: Radio Farda, a Persian-language service, has operated continuously since 2002.
                  USAGM ended terrestrial broadcast support in March 2025.202 However, USAGM distribution
                  support resumed in February, with shortwave transmissions and leased AM frequencies
                  added.203 In June, Radio Farda sites received 368 million video views from inside of Iran,
                  333 percent more than the previous month when Internet service was suspended in Iran.204




26   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026
                                                                                     APPENDIXES




APPENDIXES
APPENDIX A
Classified Appendix to this Report
A classified appendix to this report provides additional information on Operation Epic Fury
(OEF). The appendix will be delivered to relevant agencies and congressional committees.



APPENDIX B
About the Lead Inspector General
The Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended (codified at 5 U.S.C. Sections 401-424),
established in section 419 the Lead Inspector General (Lead IG) framework for oversight of
overseas contingency operations. The Lead IG agencies are the Offices of Inspector General
(OIG) of the Department of War (DoW), the Department of State (State), and the U.S. Agency for
International Development (USAID).

Section 419 requires the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency to
appoint a Lead IG from among the Inspectors General of the Lead IG agencies upon the
commencement or designation of a military operation that exceeds 60 days as an overseas
contingency operation or receipt of notification thereof.

The Chair of the Council of the Inspectors General for Integrity and Efficiency designated the
DoW IG as the Lead IG for OEF. The Lead IG appointed the State IG to be the Associate IG for OEF.

Lead IG oversight of the operation “sunsets” at the end of the first fiscal year after
commencement or designation in which the total amount appropriated for the operation is
less than $100,000,000.

The Lead IG agencies collectively carry out the Lead IG statutory responsibilities to:

   • Submit to Congress on a quarterly basis a report on the contingency operation and to
     make that report available to the public.
   • Develop a joint strategic plan to conduct comprehensive oversight of the operation.
   • Ensure independent and effective oversight of programs and operations of the
     U.S. Government in support of the operation through either joint or individual audits,
     inspections, investigations, and evaluations.

The Overseas Contingency Operations Joint Planning Group serves as a primary venue
to coordinate audits, inspections, and evaluations of U.S. Government-funded activities
supporting overseas contingency operations.

The Lead IG agencies use dedicated, rotational, and temporary employees, as well as
contractors, to conduct oversight projects, investigate fraud and corruption, and provide
consolidated planning and reporting on the status of overseas contingency operations.


                                APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I 27
     OPERATION EPIC FURY




APPENDIX C
Methodology for Preparing this
Lead IG Report
To fulfill the congressional mandate to report on OEF, the Lead IG agencies gather data and
information from their respective agencies and other Federal agencies about activities related
to the operation. The sources of information contained in this report are listed in endnotes
or notes to tables and figures. Except in the case of audits, inspections, investigations, and
evaluations referenced in this report, the Lead IG agencies have not verified or audited the
information collected from Federal agencies, and the information provided represents the
view of the source cited in each instance.

The DoW IG, as the Lead IG for this operation, is responsible for assembling and producing this
report. The DoW OIG, State OIG, and USAID OIG drafted the sections of the report related to the
activities of their agencies and then participate in editing the entire report. Once assembled,
each OIG coordinates a two-phase review process of the report within its own agency. During
the first review, the Lead IG agencies ask relevant offices within their agencies to comment,
correct inaccuracies, and provide additional documentation. The Lead IG agencies incorporate
agency comments, where appropriate, and send the report back to the agencies for a second
review prior to publication. The final report reflects the editorial view of the DoW OIG, State
OIG, and USAID OIG as independent oversight agencies.




28   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026
                                                                                                                 APPENDIXES



APPENDIX D
Table 9.
State and Treasury Sanctions, Designations, and other Actions Against Iran ,February–June 2026

 Date          Target

 February 6    Sanctioned illicit traders of Iranian oil and shadow fleet to support terrorism abroad.205

 February 10   Sanctioned Iran-backed Hezbollah operatives exploiting Lebanon’s informal financial sector.206

 February 25   Sanctioned actors involved in weapons procurement network in Iraq, Türkiye, and UAE supporting Iran’s
               missile and weapons development and shadow fleet.207

 April 15      Sanctioned designated Mohammad Hossein Shamkhani’s oil smuggling empire and oil-for-gold network
               financing designated Hezbollah and IRGC-Qods Force.208

 April 17      Designated seven commanders of IAMGs who planned and directed attacks against U.S. personnel, facilities,
               and interests in Iraq.209

 April 21      Sanctioned eight individuals, entities, and aircraft based in Iran Türkiye, and the UAE for their involvement in
               procurement networks supporting Iran’s UAV and ballistic missile programs.210

 April 24      Sanctioned a Chinese-based independent teapot refinery, one of Iran’s largest customers for crude oil
               and other petroleum products. Also sanctioned 40 shipping firms and vessels that operate as part of Iran’s
               shadow fleet.211

 April 28      Action against 35 actors who operate Iran’s covert financial network that supports the IRGC to access the
               international financial system.212 Treasury alerted financial institutions to sanctions risks associated with
               independent teapot oil refineries in China, primarily in Shandong Province, given their continued role in
               importing and refining Iranian crude oil.213

 May 1         Sanctioned Chinese petroleum operator and actors for importing sanctioned Iranian petroleum and
               petroleum and petrochemical products.214 Sanctioned three Iranian foreign currency exchange houses
               and their associated front companies.215

 May 7         Sanctioned Iran-aligned actors who exploit Iraq’s oil wealth to fund Iranian terrorist activities.216

 May 8         Sanctioned satellite imagery providers enabling Iran’s military strikes against U.S. forces.217 Also sanctioned
               10 individuals and companies in the Middle East, Asia, and Eastern Europe enabling Iran’s military
               procurement networks.218

 May 11        Sanctioned financial networks enabling illegal Iranian oil sales on behalf of IRGC.219

 May 19        Sanctioned Iranian financial and shipping networks that enable Iran to evade international sanctions.220

 May 21        Sanctioned nine individuals who enable Hezbollah to undermine Lebanon’s sovereignty.221

 May 27        Sanctioned the Iranian-run Persian Gulf Strait Authority, associated with the IRGC.222

 May 28        Sanctioned actors that make up Iran’s illicit oil economy that supports the IRGC and Iran’s military apparatus.223

 May 29        Sanctioned Iranian-affiliated fraud network targeting American companies.224

 June 2        Sanctioned Iran’s largest digital asset exchanges and leadership for supporting Iran’s terrorist activities.225

 June 5        Sanctioned a network of individuals, entities, and vessels involved in shipping Iranian liquid petroleum gas
               and evading U.S. sanctions.226

 June 10       Designated four Iran- and Belarus-based entities for procurement of arms for Iran’s military and weapons
               programs.227



                                                            APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I 29
     OPERATION EPIC FURY




APPENDIX E
Final Reports by Lead IG Agencies
From the start of OEF to June 30, 2026, there were no oversight reports completed related to OEF. Reports issued by the
DoW, State, and USAID OIGs and other oversight agencies are available on their respective websites.



APPENDIX F
Ongoing Oversight Projects
Table 10 lists the titles and objectives for Lead IG and partner agencies’ ongoing oversight projects related to OEF.

Table 10.
Ongoing Oversight Projects Related to OEF by the DoW, State, and USAID OIGs, as of June 30, 2026

 DEPARTMENT OF WAR OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

 Evaluation of the Interoperability of DoW Counter-Unmanned Aircraft Systems (C-UAS) (Project no. D2026-DEV0SR-0085.000)
 To determine the gaps in DoW C-UAS interoperability, and the corrective actions needed to standardize C-UAS
 interoperability.

 DEPARTMENT OF STATE OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

 Inspection of Embassy Yerevan, Armenia (Project no. 26ISP021.00)
 To evaluate the programs and operations of the U.S. Embassy in Yerevan, Armenia.

 Classified Inspection of Embassy Yerevan, Armenia (Project no. 26ISP021.01)
 To evaluate the programs and operations of the U.S. Embassy in Yerevan, Armenia.




30   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026
                                                                                                                  APPENDIXES




APPENDIX G
Planned Oversight Projects
Table 11 lists the titles and objectives for Lead IG and partner agencies’ planned oversight projects related to OEF.

Table 11.
Planned Projects Related to OEF by the DoW, State, and USAID OIGs, as of June 30, 2026

 DEPARTMENT OF WAR OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

 Evaluation of DoW Efforts to Collect and Integrate Signals Intelligence Observations, Insights, and Lessons Learned from
 the Iran Conflict
 To determine the effectiveness of selected DoW Service cryptologic components’ collection and sharing of observations,
 insights, and lessons learned from the Iran conflict’s signal intelligence operations to inform future DoW doctrine, planning,
 training, and equipping.

 Audit of U.S. Navy’s Ability to Sustain Maritime Security Capabilities for Naval Forces Operating in the U.S. Central
 Command Area of Responsibility
 To determine whether the U.S. Navy has established adequate theater sustainment capability to execute emergent ship
 maintenance and battle-damage repairs for naval forces supporting maritime security operations in the U.S. Central Command
 area of responsibility.

 Evaluation of the U.S. Air Force’s Sustainment Efforts for the KC-135 Aerial Refueling Fleet to Meet Global Requirements
 To determine the effectiveness of the Department of the Air Force’s KC-135 Stratotanker sustainment efforts in supporting fleet
 mission capability, by assessing the administration of required maintenance processes, parts procurement, and infrastructure
 needed to meet current and projected global aerial refueling demands.

 Audit of Base Operations Support for U.S. Special Operations Forces
 To determine the adequacy of base operating support for U.S. special operations forces operating in support of geographic
 combatant commands.

 Evaluation of the Defense Health Agency’s Deployment of the Joint Operational Medicine Information System (JOMIS)
 To determine how effectively the Defense Health Agency is fielding Joint Operational Medicine Information System (JOMIS) as
 an effective and timely joint medical information system that meets the longstanding needs for interoperability across Military
 Services and Combatant Commands.

 Audit of Open Commitments for Operation Epic Fury
 To determine whether DoW Components are validating and managing open FY 2026 funding commitments supporting
 Operation Epic Fury, and to identify stale, invalid, or excess commitments eligible for immediate cancellation and use for other
 critical, unfunded warfighter priorities.




                                                             APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I 31
     OPERATION EPIC FURY




APPENDIX H
Hotline and Investigations
Each Lead IG agency maintains its own hotline to receive complaints specific to its agency.
The hotlines provide a confidential, reliable means for individuals to report violations of law,
rule, or regulation; mismanagement; gross waste of funds; or abuse of authority.

During the quarter, the DoW OIG Hotline received nine allegations related to OEF and referred
five cases related to OEF to Lead IG agencies and other investigative organizations. In some
instances, a case may contain multiple subjects and allegations. State OIG received one
allegation related to OEF and referred that allegation for investigation. USAID OIG received
88 allegations related to OEF.

The DoW OIG’s criminal investigative component, the Defense Criminal Investigative
Service (DCIS), worked on cases related to OEF from offices in Europe and the United States.
State OIG and USAID OIG investigators worked on cases related to OEF from Washington, D.C.,
El Salvador, Germany, Israel, South Africa, and Thailand.

During this quarter, investigative branches of the Lead IG agencies and their partner agencies
ended with eleven open investigations, while four investigations were closed; three referrals
were made to the Department of Justice, there were three convictions, one arrest, and one
suspension from government contracts.

The Lead IG agencies and their partners coordinate investigative activities, deconflict potential
or common targets, and interact for logistical and legal support. The investigative partner
agencies consist of representatives from DCIS, State OIG, USAID OIG, the U.S. Army Criminal
Investigation Division, the Naval Criminal Investigative Service, the Air Force Office of Special
Investigations, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.




32   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026
                                                                                                                ACRONYMS




ACRONYMS
Acronym                                                          Acronym
AOR         area of responsibility                               OWUAS            one-way UAS
CSAR        combat search and rescue                             State            Department of State
DIA         Defense Intelligence Agency                          SoH              Strait of Hormuz
DoW         Department of War                                    THAAD            Terminal High Altitude Area Defense
FY          fiscal year                                          UAE              United Arab Emirates
HIMARS      High Mobility Artillery Rocket System                UAS              unmanned aircraft systems
ISR         intelligence, surveillance, and                      UN               United Nations
            reconnaissance
                                                                 U.S.             United States
Lead IG     Lead Inspector General
                                                                 USAGM            U.S. Agency for Global Media
Lead IG     DoW, State, and USAID OIGs
agencies                                                         USAID            U.S. Agency for International Development

MEU         Marine Expeditionary Units                           USCENTCOM        The U.S. Central Command

MIO         maritime interdiction operations                     USCYBERCOM       The U.S. Cyber Command

MOU         memorandum of understanding                          USEUCOM          The U.S. European Command

NATO        North Atlantic Treaty Organization                   USNAVCENT        U.S. Naval Forces Central Command

OEF         Operation Epic Fury                                  USPACOM          The U.S. Pacific Command

OIG         Office of Inspector General                          USS              United States Ship

OUSW(A&S)   Office of the Under Secretary for                    USSPACECOM       The U.S. Space Command
            Acquisition and Sustainment                          USTRANSCOM       The U.S. Transportation Command
OUSW(C)     Under Secretary of War (Comptroller)/Chief           VOA              Voice of America
            Financial Officer Financial Officer
OUSW(P)     Office of the Under Secretary of War for
            Policy




                                                         APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I 33
     OPERATION EPIC FURY

Map of Iran




                                       MAP OF IRAN




34   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026
                                                                                                  MAPS

Map of Strait of Hormuz




                          Map of Strait of Hormuz




                                     APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I 35
     OPERATION EPIC FURY




ENDNOTES                                                                24. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,
                                                                            26.3 OEF FOL077A, 8/11/2026; USCENTCOM, press release,
                                                                            “U.S. to Blockade Ships Entering or Exiting Iranian Ports,”
 1. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,                 4/12/2026; USCENTCOM, press release, “U.S. Forces to Resume
    26.3 OEF 001, 7/22/2026; USCENTCOM, press release,                      Naval Blockade Against Iran,” 7/13/2026.
    “U.S. Forces Launch Operation Epic Fury,” 2/28/2026;                25. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,
    USCENTCOM, “CENTCOM Commander Provides Update on                        26.3 OEF 001, 7/22/2026; DoW (@DeptofWar), X post,
    Operation Epic Fury,” 4/9/2026; DoW, transcript, “Secretary of          4/23/2026, 0714 ET; Tucker Reals and Frank Andrews,
    War Pete Hegseth and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff              “U.S. Forces Board Another Iran-linked Vessel in Tit-for-tat Series
    Gen. Dan Caine Hold a Press Briefing,” 3/2/2026.                        of Ship Interdictions,” CBS News, 4/23/2026.
 2. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.    26. USCENTCOM, press release, “CENTCOM Protects U.S. Warships
 3. DoW, transcript, “Secretary of War Pete Hegseth and Chairman of         Transiting Strait of Hormuz,” 5/7/2026; DoW, press release,
    the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Dan Caine Hold a Press Briefing,”        “‘Project Freedom’ Aims to Get Thousands of Commercial Ships
    3/2/2026.                                                               Safely Through Strait of Hormuz,” 5/5/2026; Kathleen Lundy,
 4. DoW, transcript, “Secretary of War Pete Hegseth and Chairman of         “Norfolk-based USS Truxtun Protecting Ships near Iran in Strait
    the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Dan Caine Hold a Press Briefing,”        of Hormuz,” 5/5/2026, 13NEWSNOW.
    3/2/2026.                                                           27. CRS, “The Strait of Hormuz: Security Developments and Impacts on
 5. DoW, website, as of 7/30/2026.                                          Oil, Gas, and Other Commodities,” 8/7/2026.
 6. DoW, transcript, “Secretary of War Pete Hegseth and Chairman of     28. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/2/2026; State,
    the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Dan Caine Hold a Press Briefing,”        response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.
    3/2/2026.                                                           29. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.
 7. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,             30. State, press release, “Secretary of State Marco Rubio Remarks to the
    26.3 OEF 001, 7/22/2026.                                                Press,” 6/25/2026; State, vetting comment, 8/24/2026.
 8. USCENTCOM, vetting comment, 8/24/2026.                              31. State, press release, “Secretary of State Marco Rubio Remarks to the
 9. USCENTCOM, responses to DoW OIG request for information,                Press,” 6/25/2026; State, vetting comment, 8/25/2026.
    26.3 OEF 003, 7/22/2026 and 26.3 OEF 010, 7/22/2026.                32. USCENTCOM, press release, “U.S. Forces to Resume Naval
10. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,                 Blockade Against Iran,” 7/13/2026; Jon Gambrell, Collin
    26.3 OEF 003, 7/22/2026.                                                Binkley, and Konstantin Toropin, “US Reimposes its Blockade
11. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.        on Iran After Tehran’s Attacks on Ships in the Strait of Hormuz,”
12. DoW, news release, “Hegseth, Caine Laud Success of U.S. Strike          Associated Press, 7/14/2026.
    on Iran Nuke Sites,” 6/22/2026; The White House, “United States     33. State EUR, response to State OIG request for information, 7/2026;
    Counterterrorism Strategy,” 5/6/2026.                                   State, press release, “Secretary of State Marco Rubio Remarks to
13. DoW, transcript, “Secretary of War Pete Hegseth and Chairman of         the Press,” 6/25/2026.
    the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Dan Caine Hold a Press Briefing,”    34. Reuters, “Oman Opens Temporary Strait of Hormuz Shipping
    3/2/2026.                                                               Routes, Says No Tolls Will be Charged,” 6/24/2026.
14. DoW, transcript, “Secretary of War Pete Hegseth and Chairman of     35. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/2/2026.
    the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Dan Caine Hold a Press Briefing,”    36. USCENTCOM, press release, “U.S. Forces Complete New Round
    3/2/2026.                                                               of Retaliatory Strikes Against Iran,” 7/7/2026; Jenny Gross, “Oil
15. DoW, “Operation Epic Fury Fact Sheet,” 4/6/2026.                        Shipments in Strait of Hormuz in Jeopardy After Day of Attacks
16. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,                 and Retaliation,” New York Times, 7/7/2026.
    26.3 OEF FOL031, 8/12/2026; USCENTCOM, “Statement for               37. Treasury, “GENERAL LICENSE X1: Revocation and Wind Down of
    the Record, Admiral Charles Bradford Cooper II, Commander,              June 21, 2026, Authorization for the Production, Delivery and Sale
    U.S. Central Command, Before the Senate Committee on Armed              of Crude Oil, Petrochemical Products, and Petroleum Products of
    Services on the Posture of U.S. Central Command,” 5/14/2026.            Iranian Origin,” 7/7/2026.
17. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,             38. ABC News, “Trump says MOU is ‘Over’, Calls Iranian Leaders
    26.3 OEF 036, 7/22/2026; USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG                 ‘Scum’ Following Latest Strikes,” 7/8/2026; White House, video
    request for information, 26.3 OEF 037, 7/22/2026; USCENTCOM,            release, “President Trump Participates in a Greeting with the
    response to DoW OIG request for information, 26.3 OEF 034,              Secretary General of NATO,” 7/8/2026; USCENTCOM, press
    7/22/2026.                                                              release, “U.S. Forces Complete Another Round of Strikes Against
18. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,                 Iran,” 7/8/2026; USCENTCOM, press release, “U.S. Forces Finish
    26.3 OEF 072, 7/22/2026.                                                Latest Round of Strikes Against Iran,” 7/11/2026.
19. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,             39. USCENTCOM, press release, “U.S. Forces Complete Another
    26.3 OEF 081, 7/22/2026.                                                Round of Strikes Against Iran,” 7/8/2026; USCENTCOM, press
20. DoW, “Secretary of War Pete Hegseth and Chairman of the Joint           release, “U.S. Forces Finish Latest Round of Strikes Against
    Chiefs Air Force Gen. Dan Caine Hold a Press Briefing,” 4/8/2026.       Iran,” 7/11/2026; USCENTCOM, press release, “U.S. Concludes
21. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/2/2026.         13th Night of Strikes on Iranian Military Targets,” 7/23/2026;
22. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/2/2026.         USCENTCOM, press release, “U.S. Forces to Resume Naval
23. USCENTCOM, press release, “U.S. to Blockade Ships Entering or           Blockade Against Iran,” 7/13/2026.
    Exiting Iranian Ports,” 4/12/2026.



36   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026
                                                                                                                             ENDNOTES




40. House Appropriations Committee, Hearing, “Budget Hearing–The          66. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,
    Department of Defense,” 5/12/2026; Senate Appropriations                  26.3 OEF 072, 7/22/2026; DIA, response to DoW OIG request for
    Committee, Hearing, “POTUS Supplemental Funding Request,”                 information, 26.3 OEF 083, 7/21/2026.
    7/21/2026.                                                            67. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,
41. OUSW(C), response to DoW OIG request for information,                     26.3 OEF 020, 7/22/2026.
    26.3 OEF 028, 8/4/2026; War Data Platform, Contingency                68. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,
    Reporting Application, undated; OUSW(C), memorandum,                      26.3 OEF 072, 7/22/2026.
    “Department of War Cost Reporting Guidance for Operation Epic         69. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,
    Fury,” 3/5/2026.                                                          26.3 OEF FOL022A, 8/12/2026.
42. War Data Platform, Contingency Reporting Application, undated.        70. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,
43. DoD 7000.14-R, “Financial Management Regulation,” Volume 3,               26.3 OEF 022, 7/22/2026; USCENTCOM, response to DoW OEF
    Chapter 8, 8/2023.                                                        request for information, 26.3 OEF FOL022A, 8/12/2026.
44. War Data Platform, Contingency Reporting Application, undated;        71. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OEF request for information,
    DoD 7000.14-R, “Financial Management Regulation,”                         26.3 OEF FOL022A, 8/12/2026.
    Volume 2A, 1/2011.                                                    72. U.S. Navy, press release, “World’s Largest Aircraft Carrier, Strike
45. War Data Platform, Contingency Reporting Application, undated.            Group Return from Historic 11-Month Deployment,” 5/16/2026;
46. War Data Platform, Contingency Reporting Application, undated.            Caitlyn Burchett, “USS Gerald R. Ford Comes Home,” USNI
47. DoD 7000.14-R, “Financial Management Regulation,” Volume 3,               News, 5/16/2026.
    Chapter 8, 8/2023.                                                    73. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,
48. DoW OIG, announcement memorandum, “Project Announcement:                  26.3 OEF 022, 7/22/2026; USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG
    Audit of Open Commitments for Operation Epic Fury                         request for information, 26.3 OEF CLAR022C, 8/12/2026.
    (Project No. D2026-D000FI-0112.000),” 7/13/2026.                      74. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,
49. House Appropriations Committee, hearing, “Budget Hearing–The              26.3 OEF 071, 7/22/2026.
    Department of Defense,” 5/12/2026.                                    75. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,
50. OUSW(C), memorandum, “Department of War Cost Reporting                    26.3 OEF 071, 7/22/2026.
    Guidance for Operation Epic Fury,” 3/5/2026.                          76. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,
51. Senate Appropriations Committee, hearing, “A Review of the                26.3 OEF 071, 7/22/2026.
    President’s Fiscal Year 2027 Budget Request for the Department of     77. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,
    Defense,”5/12/2026.                                                       26.3 OEF 016, 7/22/2026.
52. House Appropriations Committee, hearing, “Budget Hearing–The          78. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,
    Department of Defense,” 5/12/2026; Senate Appropriations                  26.3 OEF 049, 7/22/2026; USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG
    Committee, Hearing, “A Review of the President’s Fiscal Year              request for information, FOL017, 8/12/2026.
    2027 Budget Request for the Department of Defense,”5/12/2026.         79. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,
53. House Appropriations Committee, hearing, “Budget Hearing–The              26.3 OEF 049, 7/22/2026.
    Department of Defense,” 5/12/2026.                                    80. ODASW(NECA), response to DoW OIG request for information,
54. Senate Appropriations Committee, hearing, “POTUS Supplemental             26.3 OEF 018, 7/23/2026.
    Funding Request,” 7/21/2026.                                          81. NATO, transcript, “Doorstep Statement by NATO Secretary General
55. White House, letter to the Honorable Mike Johnson, 6/24/2026.             Mark Rutte Ahead of the 2026 NATO Summit in Ankara,”
56. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.          7/8/2026.
57. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.      82. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,
58. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.          26.3 OEF 010, 7/22/2026.
59. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.      83. USTRANSCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,
60. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.          26.3 OEF 014, 7/27/2026.
61. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026;      84. USTRANSCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,
    State, Letter to the Honorable Mike Johnson, 6/26/2026.                   26.3 OEF 014, 7/27/2026.
62. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.      85. USTRANSCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,
63. DoW, transcript, “Secretary of War Pete Hegseth and Admiral Brad          26.3 OEF 014, 7/27/2026.
    Cooper, Commander of U.S. Central Command, Hold a Press               86. USCENTCOM, vetting comment, 8/24/2026; USCENTCOM,
    Briefing at Central Command Headquarters on U.S. Military                 response to DoW OIG request for information, 26.3 OEF 048 and
    Operations in the Middle East,” 5/5/2026; DoW, transcript,                26.3 OEF FOL049A, 8/12/2026; Lara Korte, “Iran War Reveals
    “Secretary of War Pete Hegseth and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs           Vulnerabilities of U.S. Middle East Bases,” Stars and Stripes,
    of Staff Gen. Dan Caine Hold a Press Briefing,” 4/16/2026;                4/29/2026.
    USCENTCOM, press release, “U.S. Forces Complete New Strikes           87. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,
    on Iranian Military Targets,” 7/13/2026.                                  26.3 OEF 067, 7/22/2026.
64. DoW, transcript, “Secretary of War Pete Hegseth and Chairman of       88. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,
    the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Dan Caine Hold a Press Briefing,”          26.3 OEF 067, 7/22/2026; U.S. Navy, press release, “Tanker Ships
    3/2/2026.                                                                 Deliver Fuel to MSC Ships Via CONSOL in Support of RIMPAC
65. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,                   2022,” 7/25/2022; U.S. Air Force, press release, “Expeditionary
    26.3 OEF 020, 7/22/2026.                                                  Center’s Air Transportation Instructors Give Their Definition of
                                                                              ‘Aerial Porter’,” 7/21/2008.


                                                                   APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I 37
     OPERATION EPIC FURY




 89. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,              113. OUSW(A&S), response to DoW OIG request for information,
     26.3 OEF 067, 7/22/2026.                                                  26.3 OEF 025, 8/26/2026.
 90. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,              114. OUSW(A&S), response to DoW OIG request for information,
     26.3 OEF 067, 7/22/2026.                                                  26.3 OEF 025, 8/26/2026.
 91. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,              115. OUSW(A&S), response to DoW OIG request for information,
     26.3 OEF 010, 7/22/2026.                                                  26.3 OEF 025, 8/26/2026.
 92. USEUCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,                116. OUSW(A&S), response to DoW OIG request for information,
     26.3 OEF FOL012, 8/14/2026.                                               26.3 OEF 025, 8/26/2026.
 93. USEUCOM, response to Dow OIG request for information,                117. CRS, “U.S. Military Operations Against Iran: Munitions and
     26.3 OEF FOL012, 8/14/2026; USEUCOM, response to DoW                      Missile Defense,” 3/12/2026.
     OIG request for information, 26.3 OEF 013, 7/22/2026.                118. Marine Corps University, “MES Insights–Passive Defense
 94. USEUCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,                     Measures in Saving Iran’s Ballistic Missile Arsenal,” 7/2024.
     26.3 OEF 012, 7/22/2026.                                             119. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,
 95. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,                   26.3 OEF FOL049A, 8/12/2026.
     26.3 OEF 010, 7/22/2026.                                             120. CRS, “U.S. Aircraft Combat Losses in Operation Epic Fury:
 96. USEUCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,                     Considerations for Congress,” 5/13/2026.
     26.3 OEF FOL012, 8/14/2026: USEUCOM, vetting comment,                121. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.
     8/24/2026.                                                           122. State, response to State OIG request for information, 8/6/2026.
 97. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,              123. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026;
     26.3 OEF 010, 7/22/2026.                                                  State, vetting comment, 8/25/2026.
 98. Patricia Kime, “Iran Conflict Holds Lessons for U.S., Adversaries,   124. State, media note, “Status of U.S. Embassy Kuwait City,”
     INDOPACOM Commander Says,” U.S. Naval Institute,                          3/5/2025; Jennifer Hansler, “U.S. Embassies in the Middle East
     4/22/2026.                                                                Prepare for Extended Period with Reduced Staff Amid Iran War,”
 99. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,                   CNN, 8/12/2026; Embassy Kuwait, report, “Security Alert:
     26.3 OEF 067, 7/22/2026.                                                  Kuwait, Resumption of Limited Operations at U.S. Embassy
100. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,                   Kuwait,” 6/24/2026.
     26.3 OEF 010, 7/22/2026; DoW, transcript, “Secretary of War Pete     125. 	State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026;
     Hegseth and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Dan Caine          State vetting comment, 8/25/2026.
     Hold a Press Briefing,” 3/2/2026.                                    126. Embassy Riyadh, “Security Alert – U.S. Embassy Riyadh, Saudi
101. DoW, transcript, “Secretary of War Pete Hegseth and Chairman of           Arabia–March 31, 2026,” 3/31/2026.
     the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Dan Caine Hold a Press Briefing,”     127. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.
     3/2/2026.                                                            128. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.
102. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,              129. Embassy Baghdad, cable, “Iraq Overnight: Tuesday,
     26.3 OEF 010, 7/22/2026.                                                  March 24,” 26 MDA 10824, 3/24/2026; Embassy Baghdad, cable,
103. DoW, transcript, “Secretary of War Pete Hegseth and Chairman of           “TF-NEA2026-01: U.S. Mission Iraq Situation Report #34,”
     the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Dan Caine Hold a Press Briefing,”          26 BAGHDAD 280, 3/30/2026.
     3/10/2026.                                                           130. State, vetting comment, 8/25/2026.
104. ODASW(NECA), response to DoW OIG request for information,            131. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.
     26.3 OEF 008, 7/23/2026.                                             132. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026;
105. UNSC, “Letter Dated 10 March 2026 from the Permanent                      State vetting comment, 8/25/2026.
     Representative of the United States of America to the United         133. State, response to State OIG, vetting comments, 8/27/2026.
     Nations Addressed to the President of the Security Council,”         134. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.
     S/2026/161, 3/11/2026.                                               135. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.
106. USCENTCOM, response to DoW OIG request for information,              136. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.
     26.3 OEF 009, 7/22/2026.                                             137. Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs Mora Namdar
107. ODASW(NECA), response to DoW OIG request for information,                 (@AsstSecStateCA), X post, 3/2/2026, 4:49PM.
     26.3 OEF 018, 7/23/2026.                                             138. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026;
108. ODASW(NECA), response to DoW OIG request for information,                 State, vetting comment, 8/25/2026.
     26.3 OEF 018, 7/23/2026.                                             139. Mission Saudi Arabia, “Security Alert: Exercise Increased Caution
109. ODASW(NECA), response to DoW OIG request for information,                 in the Middle East–June 4, 2026,” 6/4/2026.
     26.3 OEF 018, 7/23/2026.                                             140. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.
110. Admiral Brad Cooper, “Statement for the Record, Admiral Charles      141. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.
     Bradford Cooper II, Commander, U.S. Central Command,” before         142. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.
     the Senate Committee on Armed Services, 5/14/2026.                   143. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.
111. DIA, response to DoW OIG request for information,                    144. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.
     26.3 OEF 048, 7/22/2026.                                             145. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.
112. Defense Casualty Analysis System, “Operation Epic Fury               146. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.
     (OEFU),” accessed 8/27/2026.                                         147. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.
                                                                          148. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.



38   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026
                                                                                                                               ENDNOTES




149. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.      178. State, congressional notification, “Jordan-Ku Band Multi-Function
150. State, response to State OIG request for information, vetting              Radio Frequency System (KuMRFS) Radars,” 2/26/2026.
     comments, 8/27/2026.                                                  179. State, congressional notification, “Government of Jordan–Aircraft
151. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.           Repair, Return, and Spares,” 3/19/2026.
152. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026;      180. State, congressional notification, “Kuwait–Lower Tier Air and
     State, vetting comment, 8/25/2026.                                         Missile Defense Sensor Radars,” 3/19/2026.
153. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.      181. State, congressional notification, “Kuwait–Integrated Battle
154. Treasury, response to DoW OIG request for information,                     Command System,” 5/1/2026.
     26.3 OEF 090, 8/3/2026.                                               182. State, congressional notification, “Kuwait–Counter-Unmanned
155. OASW(NECA), vetting comment, 8/25/2026.                                    Aerial Systems Platforms,” 6/5/2026.
156. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.      183. State, congressional notification, “Kuwait–KC-130J Aircraft
157. Treasury, response to DoW OIG request for information,                     Follow-on Sustainment Support,” 6/15/2026.
     26.3 OEF 090, 8/3/2026; State, response to State OIG request for      184. State, congressional notification, “Qatar–Advanced Precision Kill
     information, 7/27/2026.                                                    Weapons System,” 5/1/2026.
158. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.      185. State, congressional notification, “Qatar–Patriot Missile
159. Treasury, response to DoW OIG request for information,                     Replenishment,” 5/1/2026.
     26.3 OEF 090, 8/3/2026.                                               186. Defense Security Cooperation Agency, press release, “Kingdom of
160. Treasury, “General License X: Authorizing the Production,                  Saudi Arabia–PATRIOT Advanced Capability–3 Missile Segment
     Delivery and Sale of Crude Oil, Petrochemical Products, and                Enhancement Missiles,” 1/30/2026.
     Petroleum Products of Iranian-Origin through August 21, 2026,”        187. Defense Security Cooperation Agency, press release, “Kingdom of
     6/20/2026; Treasury, “GENERAL LICENSE X1: Revocation and                   Saudi Arabia–F-15 Sustainment,” 2/3/2026.
     Wind Down of June 21, 2026, Authorization for the Production,         188. State, congressional notification, “United Arab Emirates–Long-
     Delivery and Sale of Crude Oil, Petrochemical Products, and                Range Discrimination Radar with Terminal High Altitude Area
     Petroleum Products of Iranian Origin,” 7/7/2026.                           Defense Integration,” 3/19/2026.
161. Treasury, “GENERAL LICENSE X1: Revocation and Wind Down               189. State, congressional notification, “United Arab Emirates–
     of June 21, 2026, Authorization for the Production, Delivery               Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missiles (AMRAAMs)”
     and Sale of Crude Oil, Petrochemical Products, and Petroleum               3/19/2026.
     Products of Iranian Origin,” 7/7/2026; State, vetting comment,        190. State, congressional notification, “United Arab Emirates–Fixed
     8/17/26.                                                                   Site–Low, Slow, Small Unmanned Aircraft Integrated Defeat
162. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.           System,” 3/19/2026.
163. State, press release, “Taking Action Against Iran-Backed Militia      191 State, congressional notification, “United Arab Emirates–F-16
     Commanders Threatening U.S. Personnel,” 4/17/2026.                         Munitions and Upgrades,” 3/19/2026.
164. State, website, “Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) Key         192. State, congressional notification, “United Arab Emirates–
     Leaders,” undated.                                                         Advanced Precision Kill Weapons System,” 5/1/2026
165. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.      193. State, response to USAID OIG request for information, 6/26/2026.
166. Treasury, response to DoW OIG request for information,                194. State, response to USAID OIG request for information, 6/26/2026.
     26.3 OEF 090, 8/3/2026.                                               195. State, vetting comment, 8/25/2026.
167. Treasury, response to DoW OIG request for information,                196. State, response to USAID OIG request for information, 6/26/2026.
     26.3 OEF 090, 8/3/2026.                                               197. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026;
168. Treasury, response to DoW OIG request for information,                     State, response to USAID OIG request for information, 6/26/2026.
     26.3 OEF 090, 8/3/2026.                                               198. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.
169. State, response to State OIG request for information, 7/27/2026.      199. USAGM, response to State OIG request for information,
170. State, congressional notification, “Israel–Munitions and Munitions         7/27/2026.
     Support,” 3/6/2026.                                                   200. USAGM, response to State OIG request for information,
171. State EUR, response to State OIG request for information,                  7/29/2026.
     7/27/2026.                                                            201. USAGM, response to State OIG request for information,
172. Defense Security Cooperation Agency, press release,                        7/29/2026.
     “Israel–Joint Light Tactical Vehicle,” 1/30/2026.                     202. USAGM, response to State OIG request for information,
173. Defense Security Cooperation Agency, press release,                        7/29/2026.
     “Israel–AH-64E Apache Helicopters,” 1/30/2026.                        203. USAGM, response to State OIG request for information,
174. Defense Security Cooperation Agency, press release,                        7/29/2026; USAGM, vetting comment, 8/20/2026.
     “Israel–Namer Armored Personnel Carrier Power Packs Less              204. USAGM, response to State OIG request for information,
     Transmissions and Integrated Logistics Support,” 1/30/2026.                7/29/2026; USAGM, vetting comment, 8/20/2026.
175. Defense Security Cooperation Agency, press release,                   205. State, fact sheet, “Sanctions to Combat Illicit Traders of Iranian
     “Israel–AW119Kx Light Utility Helicopters,” 1/30/2026.                     Oil and the Shadow Fleet,” 2/6/2026; OFAC, “Iran-related
176. State, congressional notification, “Israel–Munitions and Munitions         Designations,” 2/6/2026.
     Support,” 3/6/2026.                                                   206. State, press release, “Sanctioning Hizballah Finance Operatives,”
177. State, congressional notification, “Israel–Advanced Precision Kill         5/10/2026.
     Weapons System,” 5/1/2026.



                                                                     APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I 39
     OPERATION EPIC FURY




207. State, press release, “Sanctions to Disrupt Iran’s Weapons            218. Treasury, press release, “Economic Fury Disrupts Networks
     Procurement Networks and shadow fleet,” 2/25/2026;                         Supplying Weapons and UAV Components to Iran,” 5/8/2026;
     Treasury, press release, “Treasury Targets Iran’s Shadow Fleet,            OFAC, “Non-Proliferation and Iran-related Designations and
     Networks Supplying Ballistic Missile and ACW Programs,”                    Designations Updates,” 5/8/2026.
     2/25/2026; OFAC, “Iran-related Designations; Non-proliferation        219. State, press release, “New Round of Economic Fury Sanctions
     Designations,” 2/25/2026.                                                  Targets IRGC Oil Operations,” 5/11/2026; Treasury, press
208. State, press release, “U.S. Upends Iranian Shadow Fleet and Oil-           release, “Economic Fury Ramps Up Pressure on Iran’s Islamic
     for-Gold Terror Financing Network,” 4/15/2026; Treasury, press             Revolutionary Guard Corps Oil Operations,” 5/11/2026; OFAC,
     release, “Economic Fury Targets Illicit Oil Smuggling Network              “Counter Terrorism Designations; Iran-related Designations,”
     Run by Iranian Regime Elite,” 4/15/2026; OFAC, “Iran-Related               5/11/2026.
     Designations; Counter Terrorism Designations,” 4/15/2026.             220. State, press release, “United States Sanctions Iranian Financial
209. State, press release, “Taking Action Against Iran-backed Militia           and Shipping Networks,” 5/19/2026; OFAC, “Counter Terrorism
     Commanders Threatening U.S. Personnel,” 4/17/2026.                         Designations; Iran-related Designations,” 5/19/2026.
210. State, press release, “Disrupting Procurement Networks                221. State, press release, “U.S. Sanctioning Hizballah’s Enablers in
     Supporting Iran’s Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) and Ballistic              Lebanon,” 5/21/2026; Treasury, press release, “Treasury Targets
     Missile Programs and Mahan Air,” 4/21/2026; Treasury, press                Hizballah-Aligned Officials Obstructing Peace and Disarmament.”
     release, “Economic Fury Targets Iranian Missile and UAV                    5/21/2026; OFAC, “Counter Terrorism Designations,” 5/21/2026.
     Procurement Networks,” 4/21/2026; OFAC, “Counter Terrorism            222. OFAC, “Iran-related Designation; Counter Terrorism
     Designations; Non-Proliferation Designations,” 4/21/2026.                  Designation,” 5/27/2026.
211. Treasury, press release, “Economic Fury Targets Global Network        223. State, press release, “U.S. Continues Maximum Pressure with
     Fueling Iran’s Oil Trade and Shadow Fleet,” 4/24/2026; OFAC,               Sanctions Targeting Iran’s Shadow Oil Economy,” 5/28/2026;
     “Iran-related Designations; Counter Terrorism and Iran-related             Treasury, press release, “Economic Fury Targets Illicit Oil
     Designation Update; Issuance of Iran-related General License,”             Revenue Fueling Iran’s Military,” 5/28/2026; OFAC, “Iran-related
     4/24/2026.                                                                 Designations; Issuance of Russia-related General License and
212. State, press release, “United States Cuts Off Billions in Illicit          Amended Frequently Asked Questions,” 5/28/2026.
     funding to Iranian Regime,” 4/28/2026; Treasury, press release,       224. State, press release, “Sanctioning Iranian-Affiliated Fraud Network
     “Economic Fury Targets Iran Shadow Banking Facilitators,”                  Targeting American Companies,” 5/29/2026; Treasury, press
     4/28/2026; OFAC, “Counter Terrorism Designation; Iran-related              release, “Economic Fury Targets Iranian Network Defrauding
     Designations; Issuance of Frequently Asked Question; Publication           U.S. Firms to Supply Tehran’s Military,” 5/29/2026; OFAC,
     of Iran-related OFAC Alert,” 4/28/2026.                                    “Counter Terrorism Designations; Issuance of Amended Iran-
213. Treasury, press release, “Treasury Warns of Sanctions Risks                related Frequently Asked Question,” 5/29/2026.
     Linked to China-Based Independent “Teapot” Oil Refineries,”           225. State, press release, “Targeting Iraan’s Digital Asset Exchanges
     4/28/2026; OFAC, “Counter Terrorism Designation; Iran-related              for Terror Finance and Sanctions Evasion,” 6/2/2026; Treasury,
     Designations; Issuance of Frequently Asked Question; Publication           press release, “Economic Fury Targets Iran’s Largest Digital Asset
     of Iran-related OFAC Alert,” 4/28/2026.                                    Exchange for Terror Finance and Sanctions Evasion,” 6/2/2026;
214. State, press release, “U.S. Sanctions Tighten Grip on Iran-China           OFAC, “Counter Terrorism and Iran-related Designations;
     Oil Trade,” 5/1/2026; State, fact sheet, “United States Sanctions          Democratic Republic of the Congo-related Designations; Issuance
     Network Facilitating Iran’s Illicit Oil Trade,” 5/1/2026.                  of Iran-related Frequently Asked Question,” 6/2/2026.
215. Treasury, press release, “Economic Fury Targets Iranian Shadow        226. State, press release, “Sanctions to Strangle Iran’s Energy
     Banking Networks Moving Billions in Foreign Currency,”                     Smuggling and Illicit Financial Networks,” 6/5/2026; Treasury,
     5/1/2026; OFAC, “Iran-related Designations; Issuance of                    press release, “Economic Fury Targets Iranian LPG Smuggling
     Iran-related General License and Frequently Asked Question;                and Shadow Banking Networks,” 6/5/2026; OFAC, “Iran-Related
     Publication of Iran-related OFAC Alert,” 5/1/2026.                         Designations; Counter Terrorism Designations Updates,” 6/5/2026.
216. State, press release, “Sanctioning Iran-Aligned Actors                227. State, fact sheet, “Disrupting Iran’s Weapons Procurement,”
     Undermining Iraq’s Sovereignty and Exploiting its Revenue.”                6/10/2026; Treasury, press release, “Economic Fury Disrupts
     5/7/2026; Treasury, press release, “Economic Fury Targets Iraqi            Foreign Networks Supporting Iran’s Military and Weapons
     Oil Official, Iran-Backed Terrorist Militias in Iraq,” 5/7/2026;           Programs,” 6/10/2026; OFAC, “Non-Proliferation Designations;
     OFAC, “Counter Terrorism and Iran-related Designations; Cuba               Iran-related Designations; Issuance of Venezuela-related Amended
     Designation and Designations Updates; Issuance of Cuba-related             General Licenses and Frequently Asked Questions,” 6/10/2026.
     General License and Frequently Asked Questions,” 5/7/2026.
217. State, fact sheet, “Disrupting Iran’s Overseas Military Procurement
     Networks,” 5/8/2026.




40   I LEAD IG REPORT TO THE U.S. CONGRESS I APRIL 1, 2026–JUNE 30, 2026
TO REPORT FRAUD, WASTE, OR ABUSE RELATED TO
     OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
         AND PROGRAMS, CONTACT:




     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE HOTLINE
          www.dodig.mil/hotline
            1-800-424-9098




      DEPARTMENT OF STATE HOTLINE
          www.stateoig.gov/hotline
      1-800-409-9926 or 202-647-3320




      U.S. AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL
           DEVELOPMENT HOTLINE
           oig.usaid.gov/report-fraud
                1-202-985-1764
