                                                                       Estimate No.     2
                                                                       119th Congress, 2nd Session
                            EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
                                OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
                                       WAS HI NGTON, D.C.   20503


THE D IRECTOR



                                            June 24, 2026

The Honorable Mike Johnson
Speaker of the House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Mr. Speaker:

       On behalf of the President, I am transmitting to the Congress a request for $87.6 billion in
supplemental funding. Most of this request will address urgent needs related to Operation Epic
Fury (OEF), in addition to other critical needs such as responding to the Ebola outbreak in
Central Africa and supporting hardworking American farmers.

        Under President Trump ' s leadership, the United States executed a successful operation to
deter the threat of a nuclear armed Iranian regime and massively degrade the regime 's ability to
project power in the region. Accordingly, the Administration' s request addresses operational
costs incurred by the Department of War (DOW) during OEF, including funding for military
personnel and readiness expenses, operational costs to rebuild stocks expended by DOW,
classified programs, and other key expenses. The request also provides $21 billion for DOW to
support critical capabilities, munitions procurement, and strengthen the U.S. industrial base.

         In addition to supporting OEF costs incurred by DOW, the request provides $768 million
to the Department of Energy to support nuclear and other energy security requirements, primarily
for the National Nuclear Security Administration for OEF-related activities. Additional funding
is also requested for the Department of State (State) to address OEF-related costs, which would
address security for State personnel and facilities and embassy security, construction, and
maintenance. Further, funding is requested for costs the U.S. Coast Guard incurred as it
supported DOW in the Western Hemisphere while DOW was executing OEF.

        Beyond the urgent needs arising from OEF, the Administration is also requesting funding
to address other crucial needs. Notably, this request includes $1 .4 billion in funding to respond to
the Ebola virus outbreak in Central Africa. These funds would be used to limit the spread of
Ebola beyond the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Uganda to other vulnerable nations and
ensure the virus does not reach U.S. shores.

        In addition, this supplemental request includes an additional $11.1 billion to support
American farmers . This includes $10 billion in temporary economic assistance for row and
specialty crops planted in crop year 2026. An additional $1.1 billion is requested to help the State
of Florida' s agricultural producers to rebound from devastating losses that were the result of
crippling storms this past winter.
        The Administration also requests $500 million to support ongoing efforts to complete
restoration and construction projects in and around Washington, D.C., $1 billion to assist in the
final design and construction of a modernized Penn Station in New York City, $600 million to
support the General Services Administration, and $1 billion to increase the benefit levels for
participants of certain pension plans that were sponsored by Delphi Corporation and terminated
as a result of General Motors ' bankruptcy in 2009.

        Furthermore, the Administration requests additional authorities that it strongly supports.
These authorities include revising the Federal regulation of hemp to ensure the fair treatment of
hemp products in a manner consistent with Amendment #54 offered to H.R. 8646 in the House
Rules Committee, or, at minimum, an extension of implementation of the regulatory framework
put in place by Section 781 of Public Law 119-3 7. They also include an urgent and needed fix
that codifies the permanent, year-round sale of E-15; adding flexibility to funding provided by
the Working Families Tax Cuts Act for the Administration' s Brand New Air Traffic Control
System initiative; increasing loan limits for small manufacturers; additional flexibilities for State;
and removing a statutory barrier to the Development Finance Corporation supporting
investments in Venezuela.

        The enclosed table enumerates the request by agency and account. I urge the Congress to
take action on these important and urgent requests as soon as possible. The Administration is
also open to discussing additional relief for other urgent matters. I stand ready to work with you
for the benefit of the American people.




                                              Russell T. Vought
                                              Director




Enclosure



                                                -2-
                                                                           Urgent Supplemental Funding Needs
                                                                         Budget Authority
                Appropriations Bill/Agency/Bureau/Account                                                                                         Description
                                                                          (whole dollars)
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies
  Department of Agriculture
     Office of the Secretary
        Processing, Research, and Marketing--Office of the Secretary          1,100,000,000   This request would provide $1.1 billion to the Processing, Research, and Marketing account within the U.S.
                                                                                              Department of Agriculture (USDA) for agricultural producers who faced damages from winter storms that
                                                                                              occurred in late 2025 and early 2026.
                                                                            10,000,000,000    This request would provide $10 billion in temporary economic assistance for row and specialty crops planted in
                                                                                              crop year 2026.
Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
  Department of Justice
   Federal Bureau of Investigation
      Salaries and Expenses                                                     40,258,000    $40 million is requested for the Federal Bureau of Investigation to carry out activities related to Operation Epic
                                                                                              Fury and other classified needs. Additional details on these activities are classified and can be provided in a
                                                                                              separate setting.
Defense
  Department of War--Military Programs
                                                                            67,146,000,000    This request would provide $67.1 billion for the Department of War including: $1.7 billion for Readiness; $17.3
                                                                                              billion for Operational Costs; $0.8 billion for National Guard Support; $1.5 billion for fuel costs; $1.2 billion for
                                                                                              Administration priorities; $21 billion for Munitions; $5.1 billion for Cybersecurity and Autonomy; $2.4 billion
                                                                                              for Drones; $4 billion for Airborne Moving Target Indication and Space Data Network Backbone; and $12.1
                                                                                              billion for other classified programs.
Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies
  Department of Energy
     Environmental and Other Defense Activities
       Other Defense Activities                                                 95,500,000    This classified request supports Department of Energy activities funded out of the Other Defense Activities
                                                                                              appropriation in support of Operation Epic Fury and other classified purposes.
     National Nuclear Security Administration
       Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation                                        672,000,000    This funding is for activities for complete and verifiable termination of Iran’s ability to develop or acquire a
                                                                                              nuclear weapon, including the disposition of proliferation sensitive material, technology, equipment, and
                                                                                              infrastructure.
Financial Services and General Government
   Department of the Treasury
     Departmental Offices
        Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence                          36,180,000    This request would provide $36 million for the Department of the Treasury as part of a classified request.




                                                                                                 1 of 3
                                                                    Budget Authority
               Appropriations Bill/Agency/Bureau/Account                                                                                  Description
                                                                     (whole dollars)
  General Services Administration
    Real Property Activities
      Federal Buildings Fund                                              600,000,000   This request would provide $300 million for urgent elevator-related capital projects across over 45 buildings
                                                                                        nationwide with the scope limited to repair and replacement of elevator and other conveyance systems, with
                                                                                        potential tie-ins to fire alarm systems, emergency generators, historical preservation compliance, and
                                                                                        Architectural Barriers Act Accessibility Standards compliance; and, $300 million for the Washington, D.C.,
                                                                                        Heating Operation and Transmission District (HOTD) Decoupling Program to allow the General Services
                                                                                        Administration (GSA) to continue work necessary for buildings to operate independently of HOTD including
                                                                                        installing Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning systems, buyouts of Energy Savings Performance Contracts,
                                                                                        divestments, decoupling of non-GSA buildings (20 of 62 buildings) and other uses.

Homeland Security
  Department of Homeland Security
    United States Coast Guard
      Operations and Support                                            2,031,500,000   This funding would be used for the U.S. Coast Guard to support Department of War (DOW) / Operation Epic
                                                                                        Fury efforts and fill in the gaps where DOW assets are not available to support Western Hemisphere
                                                                                        operations. This includes funding for operations at the Southern Border, replacing legacy communications
                                                                                        equipment, and securing strategic military outload ports and other key maritime nodes.
     Analysis and Operations
       Operations and Support                                              13,100,000   This request would provide $13 million for the Department of Homeland Security as part of a classified
                                                                                        request.
Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies
   Department of the Interior
      National Park Service
        Construction                                                      500,000,000   This request would provide $500 million to the Construction account within the National Park Service of the
                                                                                        Department of the Interior to be used to coordinate, plan, and execute targeted restoration and construction
                                                                                        for the Seawall and the World War II Memorial.
Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies
  Department of Labor
    Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
        Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation Fund                       1,000,000,000   This authorization and funding would be used to increase the benefit levels for participants of certain pension
                                                                                        plans that were sponsored by Delphi Corporation and terminated as a result of General Motors' bankruptcy in
                                                                                        2009. Language is needed to establish and fund a new trust fund at the Department of the Treasury for the
                                                                                        payment of these benefits to supplement the guaranteed benefit level the Pension Benefit Guaranty
                                                                                        Corporation is currently paying. The cost of this new fund could be fully offset, or a revenue generator, by
                                                                                        accelerating pension insurance premiums.




                                                                                           2 of 3
                                                                      Budget Authority
               Appropriations Bill/Agency/Bureau/Account                                                                                     Description
                                                                       (whole dollars)
National Security, Department of State, and Related Programs
  Department of State
     Administration of Foreign Affairs
       Diplomatic Programs                                                1,521,700,000   This request includes $1.5 billion to the Diplomatic Programs account, which includes $1.4 billion for the
                                                                                          Worldwide Security Protection programs and $120 million for operations in U.S. missions throughout the
                                                                                          region. The request prioritizes $850 million for the Department of State's Counter-Unmanned Aircraft Systems
                                                                                          program at high-risk posts, and security upgrades and equipment replacement. The request includes $21
                                                                                          million for the Department as part of a classified request.
        Embassy Security, Construction, and Maintenance                     300,000,000   This request includes $300 million to the Embassy Security, Construction, and Maintenance (ESCM) account.
                                                                                          Funding would be used to address needs following Operation Epic Fury, including in Bahrain, Dubai, Karachi,
                                                                                          Lahore, Riyadh, and others. These amounts are in addition to the up to $1 billion currently allocated in the
                                                                                          ESCM fiscal year 2026 Operating Plan to address Operation Epic Fury.
        Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service                   90,000,000   This request includes $90 million to the Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service account for
                                                                                          unanticipated needs related to the Ebola situation including for the medical evacuation of U.S. citizens.
                                                                            100,000,000   This request includes $100 million to the Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service account for
                                                                                          unanticipated needs related to the situation in the Middle East including for departure assistance to U.S.
                                                                                          citizens seeking to leave the region with their families. Transfer authority and an increase in repatriation loan
                                                                                          level is requested to meet the needs of destitute U.S. citizens.
     Other
       Global Health Programs                                               550,000,000   This request includes $550 million for Global Health Security, to prevent, detect, and respond to the Ebola
                                                                                          Bundibugyo Virus outbreak in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Uganda, and other vulnerable nations.
                                                                                          This funding is critical to protect Americans, and stop the spread to the United States. These funds would
                                                                                          support contact tracing, personal protective equipment and commodity procurement, disease surveillance,
                                                                                          laboratory capacity, and cross-border coordination.
        International Humanitarian Assistance                               800,000,000   This request includes $800 million for the International Humanitarian Assistance account to support the
                                                                                          humanitarian crisis response related to the Ebola virus outbreak in Central Africa, including for the Kenya
                                                                                          facility.
Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies
  Department of Transportation
     Federal Railroad Administration
       Federal-State Partnership for Intercity Passenger Rail             1,000,000,000   This funding would be used to assist in the final design and construction of a modernized Penn Station in New
                                                                                          York City. These supplemental funds, along with base resources, will ensure the project can proceed on an
                                                                                          expedited schedule. The Administration also requests that 49 U.S.C. 24911(d)(3) not apply to these funds.

TOTAL                                                                    87,596,238,000




                                                                                             3 of 3
                                                                           Urgent Supplemental Authorities

                        Appropriations Bill/Agency/Bureau/Account                                                                        Description


Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies
  Department of Agriculture
     Agricultural Marketing Service
        Marketing Services                                                           This request would update the statutory definition of final hemp-derived cannabinoid products to allow
                                                                                     Americans to benefit from access to appropriate full-spectrum CBD products while preserving the Congress’s
                                                                                     intent to restrict the sale of products that pose serious health risks.

Defense
  Department of War--Military Programs
                                                                                     Authorization is necessary to provide funding for intelligence related activities.

Financial Services and General Government
   Small Business Administration
        Business Loans Program Account                                               This request would authorize the Small Business Administration to increase the maximum loan amounts
                                                                                     available to small manufacturers under the 7(a) and 504 loan programs, like in the Made in America
                                                                                     Manufacturing Finance Act.

Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies
   Environmental Protection Agency
        Administrative Provisions--Environmental Protection Agency                   The Administration requests a fix that codifies the permanent, year-round sale of E-15, an urgent and needed
                                                                                     policy change that would expand consumer choice, support domestic fuel production, and provide additional
                                                                                     flexibility in fuel markets.

National Security, Department of State, and Related Programs
  Department of State
       General Provisions                                                            The Administration requests that the Congress provide authority for funds made available under the headings
                                                                                     “Economic Support Fund,” “Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia,” and “National Security Investment
                                                                                     Programs” in the fiscal year 2026 and prior year appropriations acts to be used, notwithstanding any other
                                                                                     provision of law, to establish and operate enterprise funds in foreign countries in line with, but not
                                                                                     geographically restricted to, the relevant provisions of section 201 of the Support for East European Democracy
                                                                                     (SEED) Act of 1989. This authority would provide the legal framework for these funds to be used to establish
                                                                                     and operate enterprise funds, proven, agile tools which would support private sector development, promote
                                                                                     economic stabilization, and facilitate job creation in eligible foreign countries undergoing political or economic
                                                                                     transition. Granting this authority would allow the Department to respond rapidly to emerging opportunities or
                                                                                     crises where traditional assistance mechanisms may be less effective or too slow.




                                                                                           1 of 2
                       Appropriations Bill/Agency/Bureau/Account                                                       Description
  International Assistance Programs
     United States International Development Finance Corporation
       United States International Development Finance Corporation    This request would remove a statutory barrier to the Development Finance Corporation (DFC) supporting
                                                                      investments in Venezuela to reflect the changes in Venezuela since DFC's reauthorization in 2025 and empower
                                                                      the Secretary of State to certify to the Congress that DFC support would further the national economic or
                                                                      foreign policy interests of the United States in enumerated DFC Countries of Concern to rapidly respond to
                                                                      changes.
Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies
  Department of Transportation
     Federal Aviation Administration
       Facilities and Equipment                                       This request would provide the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration with discretion to
                                                                      reallocate any remaining amounts of the $12.52 billion provided by the Working Families Tax Cuts Act for air
                                                                      traffic control modernization to any element of the Administration's Brand New Air Traffic Control System
                                                                      initiative.




                                                                           2 of 2
