U.S. Senate: Senate Floor Activity - Tuesday, June 23, 2026

The President pro tempore called the Senate to order at 10 a.m., the Chaplain offered a prayer, and the President pro tempore led the
Senate in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United
States of America.
The Journal
Pursuant to the order of yesterday, the Journal of the
proceedings of the Senate was deemed approved to date.
Certain Procedures Dispensed With
Pursuant to the order of yesterday,
the morning hour being deemed expired, and the times for the recognition
of the two leaders being reserved.
Transaction of Morning Business
The following transactions of morning business occurred on today.
Legislative Business (Tuesday, June 23)
H.Con.Res. 86 (Rep. Meeks):
A concurrent resolution directing the President,
pursuant to section 5(c) of the War Powers Resolution, to remove United
States Armed Forces from hostilities with Iran.
--
Senate Committee on Foreign Relations discharged pursuant to the order of
06/18/2026.
--
Resolution agreed to in Senate without amendment by Yea-Nay Vote. 50 - 48.
Record Vote Number:
184
S.Res. 786 (Sen. Graham):
A resolution designating July 15, 2026, as
"Glioblastoma Awareness Day".
--
Submitted in the Senate, considered, and agreed to without amendment and
with a preamble by Unanimous Consent.
Executive Business (Tuesday, June 23)
PN859-3:
Darrell Owens, of Pennsylvania, to be U.S.
Representative to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe,
with the rank of Ambassador
--
Considered by Senate.
--
Confirmed by the Senate by Yea-Nay Vote. 67 - 30. Record Vote Number:
183
PN938-2:
Matthew A. Schwartz, of New York, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit
--
Motion to proceed to executive session to consideration of nomination
agreed to in Senate by Voice Vote.
--
Cloture motion presented in Senate.
Adjournment
By unanimous consent, on the request of Ms. Lummis, at
7:05 p.m., the Senate adjourned, under its order of today, until
10 a.m. tomorrow.