Irish acts exit Ed Sheeran tour as they back Macklemore

Irish acts Aaron Rowe and Beoga, Irish-American solo artist Finneas, and Denmark's Lukas Graham have announced they are leaving their guest slots on Ed Sheeran's tour in solidarity with the American rapper Macklemore, who was removed from the tour over his comments about Gaza.
In a statement on Instagram, Dubliner Rowe wrote: "I have made the decision to withdraw as a support act for Ed Sheeran's 'The Loop' North American Tour."
"I don't take the decision lightly. Ed has been a friend to me and has changed my life, I could never thank him enough for this," Rowe continued.
"But as Irish people we know all too well about genocide, forced famine and violent occupation.
"I cannot stand by and allow billionaires to use their position of power to silence the rightful voices of those who speak up against Israeli genocide and who highlight the savage murder of children. I would lose all respect for myself to carry on as normal.
"I need to be true to myself and my ancestors who resisted colonisation, and fought for a freedom that I enjoy today in Ireland."
"Free Palestine," he concluded.
In their lengthy statement, trad band Beoga said they had decided to leave the tour "following the silencing of Macklemore by zionist lobbies".
"We have been friends with Ed for over 10 years now and will continue to be," they told their Instagram followers.
"We believe in dialogue as a means of progressing the plight of the Palestinian people."
"We are Irish people who understand colonialism," Beoga continued.
"As founding members of the Irish Artists for Palestine movement, we are committed activists for justice and will continue to be.
"This whole episode is once again serving to distract from the real issue, over 1000 Palestinians have been killed since the recent so-called ceasefire."
In his statement, Finneas said: "Artists must not be silenced when they speak up for the oppressed.
"I have decided to withdraw from my upcoming tour dates with Ed Sheeran.
"I stand with Palestine and its people."
Finneas was due to support Sheeran in South America later this year.
Lukas Graham singer Lukas Forchhammer said on Instagram: "We should be able to speak about war, about civilians being killed, about children who deserve to grow up. Wherever they live. Whatever flag flies over them."
"Money doesn't give you the right to own the conversation. Nobody's bank balance should decide who gets to speak or which suffering we're allowed to acknowledge," the statement continued.
"I love Ed, and I'm grateful for everything we've shared. That hasn't changed. But I can't put these words out into the world and carry on with this tour as things stand. We're withdrawing from the remaining dates."
During a show at the MetLife Stadium in New Jersey last week, Macklemore said that he wanted people in Gaza and the West Bank to know they had not been forgotten, which led to a petition demanding he be removed from the remaining dates.
On Monday, Macklemore, real name Benjamin Hammond Haggerty, posted on Instagram that Sheeran and his team had then "made the decision to remove" him from the Loop Tour.
But in a response on the social media platform on Tuesday, Sheeran said Macklemore's departure from the tour was the promoter's decision and not his.
Sheeran said "upcoming tour dates had communicated that they would pull the shows if he was still supporting".
Sheeran told his Instagram followers: "I am not complicit. I have my personal views on this devastating conflict.
"Just because I choose not to speak publicly, it doesn't mean I don't have them, and it doesn't mean I don't care.
"Nor does it mean I don't support causes in my own personal way."
The Shape of You singer said he was "appalled by the conflict between Israel and Palestine" and that he respected Macklemore "as an artist".
Sheeran said that he had "spent this week trying to build bridges, to find a solution and unfortunately was unable to do so".
Israel's bombardment of Gaza has left around 73,500 Palestinians dead and 174,500 wounded since October 2023, according to Gaza's Hamas-run health ministry, whose figures the United Nations deems reliable.
The bombing of Gaza followed an attack on Israel by Hamas militants on 7 October, 2023 that resulted in the deaths of 1,219 people, according to an AFP calculation based on official figures.
Israel has denied all accusations of genocide in Gaza.
Additional Reporting: Press Association, AFP