The 40-Minute Phone Call That Left Ed Sheeran’s Tour Hanging by a Thread - WSJ

ET
New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft isn’t usually in the business of vetting supporting acts for concerts at his NFL team’s home stadium. But last week, when he caught wind that one of the artists booked to play Ed Sheeran’s concert at Gillette Stadium was, in his view, using the tour to accuse Israel of committing genocide, Kraft decided he wouldn’t remain on the sidelines.
Kraft, the 85-year-old billionaire, had a longstanding relationship with Sheeran—the English musician had even played at his wedding in 2022. Over the course of a 40-minute conversation, Kraft explained that he wouldn’t host Macklemore, the outspoken American rapper, at his stadium.
More than that, several other National Football League owners were also ready to cancel Sheeran’s dates as long as Macklemore remained on the bill.
By then, the tightknit circle of NFL owners whose hulking mega-venues host everything from sold-out concerts to World Cup games had drawn a line in the sand. David Tepper and Arthur Blank—the respective owners of the Carolina Panthers and Atlanta Falcons—had made up their minds, people familiar with the matter said. Philadelphia Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie would soon reach the same conclusion, as the owners traded phone calls and prepared to address the situation.
Kraft told Sheeran that while he felt for the Palestinian people and understood it was a complicated situation, he believed that Macklemore’s comments constituted hate speech—not freedom of speech, according to a person familiar with the call. The real problem in the conflict, he told Sheeran, was Hamas, a U.S.-designated terrorist organization. He noted that Macklemore had previously been accused of antisemitism in 2014 for wearing a costume that featured Jewish stereotypes such as a beard and oversize hook nose. Macklemore apologized at the time and said he didn’t intend to impersonate a Jewish person. A spokeswoman for Macklemore declined to comment.
Faced with the prospect of getting barred from some of his biggest stops, Sheeran’s promoter dropped Macklemore—and suddenly the tour was thrown into chaos. Other supporting acts, including Sheeran’s backing band, later withdrew in solidarity with Macklemore.
The episode has thrust Sheeran—one of the biggest touring acts in the music industry, with a catalog of warm-and-fuzzy pop hits—into the center of a free-speech debate around an issue dividing America. Since the Hamas-led Oct. 7, 2023, attack on Israel that killed around 1,200 people, mostly civilians, Israel’s response has become a political hot button everywhere from the campaign trail to Hollywood awards shows and pop concerts.
Sheeran has for years filled huge venues around the world with a relatively simple show, often playing solo on his acoustic guitar. His concerts have grossed about $1.9 billion on nearly 21 million tickets sold from 2008 through June of this year, the most recent data available, according to data firm Pollstar.
How Sheeran, a musician known for his crowd-pleasing, inoffensive everyman appeal, landed in this situation illustrates the hazards of planning a lucrative, global music tour at a time of intense geopolitical unrest and cultural division over violent conflicts.
“This decision is not about diminishing the suffering of innocent Palestinians or denying anyone the right to advocate on their behalf. Their pain and loss are real,” Kraft said in a statement. “Standing with the Palestinian people and standing against Hamas, antisemitism and hate should not be mutually exclusive.”
Macklemore has regularly espoused his beliefs onstage, and in 2024 he released “Hind’s Hall,” a song that accuses Israel of genocide and expresses support for pro-Palestinian protesters on college campuses. But Sheeran, a far more popular act, has historically stayed out of politics.
In a statement on Instagram this week, Sheeran said his music has brought together “people from all backgrounds and cultures.” He added that fans who buy tickets to his shows “do not expect a political forum.”
The fracas began when Macklemore joined as an opening act for a pair of concerts in early September at MetLife Stadium, home to the New York Jets and Giants. Macklemore’s onstage comments during the first of those shows, which included saying “Free Palestine” and performing “Hind’s Hall,” caused immediate alarm. Representatives of several NFL owners reached out to the promoters to say that they had booked Sheeran for an evening of entertaining fun, not to host a political rally with what they felt involved hate speech, one of the people said.
They heard back that Macklemore would leave out any mention of the issue from his act, the person said. On stage the very next night, however, he once again brought up the conflict.
“One of the reasons why I wanted to come on this tour was because I wanted to stand up here on stages and stadiums across America and say two words that are very near and dear to my heart: Free Palestine,” Macklemore said that evening. “I want to say this to all of my Jewish brothers and sisters. Criticism of Israel, criticism of apartheid, being against genocide in no way is a criticism of you.”
In his statement, Sheeran said Macklemore asked him to be part of the tour, and it was the concert promoter’s decision to take Macklemore off. Sheeran’s promoter, Messina Touring, which put on Taylor Swift’s Eras Tour but primarily works with country artists, said that it was notified of the venues’ decision, and that “after discussions with stakeholders, Macklemore will not be performing on the remaining support dates.”
Macklemore, in a social-media post Wednesday, said he would donate his $1 million in proceeds from the tour to organizations working to support the Palestinian people. Kraft said that after speaking with Sheeran again, he would match Sheeran’s $2 million pledge for aid in the region.
Macklemore isn’t the only artist to voice support for the Palestinian people or criticize the Israeli government in recent years. In 2024, Dua Lipa wrote on Instagram that “the whole world is mobilizing to stop the Israeli genocide.” The R&B singer Kehlani has also accused the Israeli government of genocide. Earlier this year, Chappell Roan was one of many singers who appeared at a benefit concert to raise money for a Palestinian children’s relief fund.
Macklemore wrote on Instagram that he and Sheeran had some “difficult conversations” in the aftermath of the phone call with Kraft and that Sheeran knew his “typical apolitical stance had been challenged in a way that it never had been before.”
“Ed was in a f—ed up position,” Macklemore wrote. “But he couldn’t get past his public facing, ‘I don’t take sides.’”
Sheeran remains committed to keeping his views to himself.
“I am not complicit,” Sheeran wrote. “I have my personal views on this devastating conflict. Just because I choose not to speak publicly, it doesn’t mean I don’t have them, and it doesn’t mean I don’t care.”
Copyright ©2026 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 87990cbe856818d5eddac44c7b1cdeb8
Appeared in the September 18, 2026, print edition as 'One Phone Call Put Sheeran Tour at Risk'.
Andrew Beaton is a reporter for The Wall Street Journal in New York covering the NFL, golf and sports. Andrew's coverage has included breaking news about the biggest subjects in football, such as the controversy over player protests during the national anthem, in addition to features about transcendent players and the evolution of the sport. His stories have also documented the battle for the future of golf, which earned him recognition in 2022 from Sabew.
Andrew also likes to cover the oddities of the rapidly booming chess world. He first joined the Journal as an intern in 2014 after graduating from Duke University.
Katherine Sayre is a music-industry and podcasting reporter in The Wall Street Journal's Los Angeles bureau. Her coverage includes the business of record labels and streaming platforms, the rise of AI in music and the economics of live events. She joined the Journal in 2019 to cover the gambling industry, exploring Las Vegas Strip casinos and the rise of sports betting.
Katherine is co-author with former Journal colleague Kirsten Grind of the book “Happy at Any Cost: The Revolutionary Vision and Fatal Quest of Zappos CEO Tony Hsieh.”
Before joining the Journal, Katherine was an investigative and business reporter in New Orleans at The Times-Picayune.
Elias Leight is a reporter covering music and the music business for The Wall Street Journal. His articles often focus on the new ways artists make and market music in a rapidly evolving industry that has never been more competitive. He also tracks the evolution of popular genres, chart trends and the vinyl comeback.
Elias previously spent four years at Rolling Stone and three years at Billboard.