ACLU Comment on Supreme Court Agreeing to Hear Challenge Over Trump Mandatory Detention Policy | American Civil Liberties Union

WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court today agreed to hear argument this term in Rhoney v. Barbosa da Cunha, stemming from a lawsuit brought by the American Civil Liberties Union, New York Civil Liberties Union, and the Law Office of Paul Dwyer PC challenging the Trump administration’s new policy subjecting millions of immigrants to mandatory detention without access to bond hearings.
In July 2025, the Trump administration suddenly adopted a new radical misinterpretation of immigration law, declaring that anyone who entered without inspection must be detained without access to bond or due process regardless of how long that person has lived in the country or their ties to family and community.
Hundreds of federal district judges have ruled on thousands of related habeas petitions, with nine out of 10 judges ruling that the administration’s misinterpretation of immigration law is illegal. Nine federal appeals courts have also ruled against the policy, including a Second Circuit ruling at the center of this case.
The following is reaction to the Supreme Court’s decision to hear the case:
“The courts have repeatedly and resoundingly rejected the Trump administration’s radical misinterpretation of the law. Try as it might, the government cannot twist the law to detain immigrants for months or even years on end without a bond hearing. Not only is it cruel and inhumane; it is unlawful. We look forward to making that case to the Supreme Court,” said Michael K.T. Tan, deputy director of the ACLU’s Immigrants’ Rights Project.
“The Trump administration’s policy of detaining immigrants without any process is both inhumane and unlawful,” said Amy Belsher, director of Immigrants’ Rights Litigation at the New York Civil Liberties Union. “Despite their best efforts, the government cannot rewrite the law to detain millions of noncitizens, many of whom have lived here for decades, without an opportunity to seek release. The Immigration and Nationality Act, and fundamental fairness, require the government to, at a minimum, allow people to make a case for their release. We look forward to making that clear to the Supreme Court."
“Mr. Barbosa da Cunha has been living in the U.S. for the last 22 years. He is a hard-working, small-business owner, with a U.S. citizen family and no criminal history. He has never missed an immigration appointment or hearing. Detaining him without the possibility of release on bond serves no purpose other than to punish him for being an immigrant, and has been solidly rejected by every court to have considered his case. We are confident that the Supreme Court will agree," said attorney Paul Dwyer of the Law Office of Paul Dwyer PC.