 EU and Greenland strengthen partnership and engagement, backed by €200 million in EU investment | Shaping Europe’s digital future Skip to main content en Select your language Close bg български es español cs čeština da dansk de Deutsch et eesti el ελληνικά en English fr français ga Gaeilge hr hrvatski it italiano lv latviešu lt lietuvių hu magyar mt Malti nl Nederlands pl polski pt português ro română sk slovenčina sl slovenščina fi suomi sv svenska Search Search Shaping Europe’s digital future Menu Close Menu Back Previous items Next items Home Policies Activities News Library Funding Calendar Consultations AI Office Home News & Views EU and Greenland strengthen partnership and engagement, backed by €200 million in EU investment EU and Greenland strengthen partnership and engagement, backed by €200 million in EU investment PRESS RELEASE Publication 07 September 2026 On her visit to Nuuk, the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen announced a €200 million Global Gateway Partnership Package, to be invested in and with Greenland this year and the next. The EU, Greenland and Denmark have also reinforced their partnership with a new Joint Declaration, signed in Nuuk by the President, Premier of Greenland Jens-Frederik Nielsen and Prime Minister of Denmark Mette Frederiksen. President von der Leyen said: “Greenland can count on the EU. That was my message during my last visit. Today, I am back to deliver the real results of our close cooperation. With a new EU-Greenland Partnership package, worth €200 million. This will create new opportunities and a strong and engaged EU in both Greenland and the Arctic. Because Greenland is a strategic ally and a trusted friend.” The Declaration and the investment package deepen the EU-Greenland cooperation across the board – from traditional areas, such as education and fisheries, to better satellite and cable connectivity, hydropower and critical raw materials. The package also focuses on investments that improve everyday life in the country: better housing, sustainable tourism and stronger support for small businesses. Read the full press release , the statement by President von der Leyen and the Joint Declaration . Related topics Broadband Digital connectivity Strengthening trust and security Satellite broadband International relations Last update 7 September 2026 Print as PDF Shaping Europe’s digital future This site is managed by: Directorate-General for Communications Networks, Content and Technology Digital EU on Mastadon Digital EU on LinkedIn Digital EU on Facebook Digital EU on Youtube Digital EU on Instagram Digital EU on X About us Privacy statement Copyright notice About Directorate-General CONNECT Language Policy Follow the European Commission Mastodon LinkedIn Bluesky Facebook Youtube Other Contact us Report an IT vulnerability Languages on our websites Cookies Privacy policy Legal notice Accessibility 