 The Danish Armed Forces increases presence and training activity in and around Greenland Skip to content Don't show this message again Search Search Roles and responsibilities (current) National Role International Roles Current deployments Host Nation Support Organisation (current) High Command Organisation of the Danish Armed Forces The Army The Navy The Air Force Joint Arctic Command Special Operations Command News (current) Publications (current) About us Contact Dansk About us Contact Dansk Roles and responsibilities (current) Organisation (current) News Publications Roles and responsibilities National Role International Roles Current deployments Host Nation Support Organisation High Command Organisation of the Danish Armed Forces The Army The Navy The Air Force Joint Arctic Command Special Operations Command Search Search Armed Forces News The Danish Armed Forces increases presence and training activity in and around Greenland The Danish Armed Forces is raising its activity level in and around Greenland in close cooperation with NATO allies. January 15, 2026 - 15:38 Soldiers board the Danish Defence&#x27;s Hercules aircraft and fly to Greenland as part of the Danish Defence&#x27;s increased presence. Photo: Lars Skjoldan / Danish Armed Forces Read article By the Danish Defence Command &nbsp; The Danish Armed Forces continues its increased presence with training activities together with several NATO allies in the Arctic and the North Atlantic. This is done in close coordination with the Greenlandic authorities and the Government of Greenland, Naalakkersuisut. &nbsp; In the summer of 2025, the Danish Armed Forces strengthened its presence and training activity in and around Greenland with a range of capabilities, including contributions from allies such as Germany, France, Sweden, and Norway. The initiatives included deployments at sea, on land, and in the air, as well as exercises related to the protection of critical infrastructure. &nbsp; The Danish Armed Forces heightened presence and training activity will continue and be further strengthened in cooperation with additional NATO allies in 2026. The activities will consist of periodic training operations geographically distributed in and around the Arctic and the North Atlantic, comprising both national and international exercises. &nbsp; Soldiers from several NATO countries are briefed after arriving at Joint Arctic Command in Nuuk, Greenland. Photo: Simon Elbeck / Danish Armed Forces The purpose is, among other things, to enhance the ability to operate under Arctic conditions and thereby strengthen the security of the entire alliance in the Arctic, to the benefit of both European and transatlantic security. &nbsp; As part of the increased presence in the Arctic and the North Atlantic, the Danish Armed Forces will from today and in the coming period deploy capabilities and units in connection with training activities. This will lead to increased military presence in and around Greenland by aircraft, ships, and soldiers &mdash; including those from NATO allies. &nbsp; The training activities in 2026 may include guarding critical societal installations, assisting the authorities in Greenland including the police, receiving allied troops, deploying fighter aircraft in and around Greenland, as well as conducting naval operations. &nbsp; &nbsp; Agreement regarding the Arctic and North Atlantic New agreement strengthens the presence of the Danish Defence in the Arctic and North Atlantic region &nbsp; The Second Agreement on the Arctic and North Atlantic strengthens the operational effectiveness of the Danish Armed Forces with new acquisitions totalling DKK 27.4 billion Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Share on Bluesky When you share content on social media you are no longer protected by this website's privacy policy. Contact Defence Command Denmark Holmens Kanal 9 1060 Copenhagen K, Denmark Phone number: &#x2B;45 7284 0000 Press contact: &#x2B;45 7020 0440 Email: fko@mil.dk Contact The Ministry of Defence Agencies The Ministry of Defence Agencies The main agencies are described here: Ministry of Defence Defence Command Denmark Home Guard Danish Defence Intelligence Service Danish Ministry of Defence Acquisition and Logistics Organisation Defence Accounting Agency Danish Military Prosecution Service Data protection Cookies We use cookies to collect statistics and display feeds from social media. Below you can read about the different cookies. You can click Only necessary, or choose which ones you want to accept. You can change your consent at any time by clicking on the small cookie icon on the left side. &nbsp; Read more about cookies Only necessary Accept selected Accept all cookies Necessary (show details) System cookie | Necessary | Kaltura Internal statistics (show details) Siteimprove Third-party (show details) Facebook | Twitter | Google Necessary There are some cookies that are necessary for the website's system to work. If you want to completely exclude the possibility of cookies being set, you must therefore turn off cookies in your browser. Name: ASP.Net_SessionId og volumeControl_volumeValue Provider: System cookie Purpose: ASP.Net_SessionId is a cookie, which is used to identify the user's session on the web server. The session is an area on the server that can be used to store session state between http requests. Expiration: 30 days Privacy policy: Cookies Name: necessaryCookie og cookiebanner Provider: Necessary Purpose: NecessaryCookie is set to indicate acceptance of necessary cookies. &nbsp; Cookie banner is set to save the cookie settings. Expiration: 30 days Privacy policy: Cookies Name: volumeControl_volumeValue Provider: Kaltura Purpose: This cookie is necessary when playing video clips. Expiration: Session Privacy policy: Cookies Internal statistics Siteimprove web analytics program collects a general visitor statistics on our website. We have turned on IP anonymization. This means that your IP address is deleted immediately after it is read. Your IP address can thus neither be traced nor recreated in our system. The statistics are used exclusively in summarized form, eg to see how many visitors we have and which pages are most visited. Name: nmstat og AWSALBCORS Provider: Siteimprove Purpose: These cookies are only used during the current visit. Only non-personal information is collected about which subpages are visited. The purpose is to track how many visitors we have and which pages are most visited. Expiration: Up to 1,000 days, but often shorter depending on the browser. Privacy policy: Siteimprove privacy policy Third-party We use the share function for social media and embedded feeds, but you must be aware that you are technically leaving forsvaret.dk and are covered by the social media data policy when you use such a function. Feeds and card elements are only displayed to users who accept cookies from third parties. Name: Facebook Provider: Facebook Purpose: Expiration: 30 days Privacy policy: Cookies Name: Twitter Provider: Twitter Purpose: The purpose is to display our twitter feed on the website. Expiration: 30 days Privacy policy: Twitter privacy policy Name: Google Maps Provider: Google Purpose: The purpose is to be able to use Google Maps for map viewing. Expiration: 30 days Privacy policy: Google privacy policy Data privacy information &times; You now leave forsvaret.dk and go to one of our social media profiles. Be aware that you are no longer covered by our privacy policy. Cancel Continue 