 NATO forces train together in southern Greenland and around Kangerlussuaq Skip to content Don't show this message again Search Search Roles and responsibilities (current) National Role International Roles Current deployments Host Nation Support Organisation (current) High Command Organisation of the Danish Armed Forces The Army The Navy The Air Force Joint Arctic Command Special Operations Command News (current) Publications (current) About us Contact Dansk About us Contact Dansk Roles and responsibilities (current) Organisation (current) News Publications Roles and responsibilities National Role International Roles Current deployments Host Nation Support Organisation High Command Organisation of the Danish Armed Forces The Army The Navy The Air Force Joint Arctic Command Special Operations Command Search Search Armed Forces News NATO forces train together in southern Greenland and around Kangerlussuaq Forces from the Danish Defence and units from a number of allied nations are now preparing for the upcoming exercise ARCTIC SHIELD 2026 which will take place in the southern part of Greenland and around Kangerlussuaq from the 7th to the 18th of September. September 1, 2026 - 13:00 During exercise ARCTIC SHIELD 2026 around 400 soldiers, sailors and airmen from 10 NATO nations will will train in a broad variety of military activities under the harsh arctic conditions. Photo: Rebekka Gimm / Danish Armed Forces Read article By the Danish Defence Exercise ARCTIC SHIELD is a multi-domain activity involving around 400 soldiers, sailors and airmen from 10 NATO nations in the area around the village of Narsarsuaq. During the exercise the soldiers will train in a broad variety of military activities under the harsh arctic conditions. ARCTIC SHIELD is a part of the overall NATO activity ARCTIC SENTRY focusing on strengthening NATO posture in the Arctic and High North. Soldiers from the Nordic countries will be training jointly and cross-nationally and will be operating with colleagues from Belgium, France and Canada, while observer/liaison teams from Poland and Slovenia will be taking part in the exercise. Germany is participating with an observer team and logistical support. Dutch marines are also an active part of ARCTIC SHIELD 2026, by they will be conducting their training and exercises in the fjord-system of Kangerlussuaq north of the Polar Circle. ARCTIC SHIELD 2026 includes a variety of ground based military operations under arctic conditions including French infantry units, units from the Danish, Swedish and Norwegian Home Guards, a drone unit fra Belgium and special operation forces from Finland and Denmark. The Canadian part of ARCTIC SHIELD includes Arctic specialists who will share their experiences and knowledge of operating in arctic climate with their NATO allies. Defence Command Denmark and Joint Arctic Command is supporting the activities on the ground with helicopters, ships, deployable medical support facilities and expertise and logistical support for the participating nations. Alongside the activities under ARCTIC SHIELD 2026 there will be conducted other operations in the Arctic region under the enhanced NATO presence. These activities include air-operations over Iceland, Greenland and Canada where Canadian, American and Danish fighter jets will be operating together. Facts: Standard ARCTIC ENDURANCE med link til ARCTIC SENTRY. Facts: Exercise Arctic Endurance Exercise Arctic Endurance is conducted in close coordination with the Greenlandic government, Naalakkersuisut. It has been decided to continue and strengthen the effort throughout 2026 by increasing the Danish Defence military presence and exercise activity in the Arctic and North Atlantic. Arctic Endurance forms part of NATO's Arctic Sentry and is conducted in close cooperation with several NATO Allies. There will be an increased military presence in and around Greenland in the coming period, including aircraft, ships and troops. The exercise aims, among other things, to maintain the ability to operate in Arctic conditions and thereby strengthen the NATO Alliance's ability to operate in the Arctic, contributing to both European and transatlantic security. Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Share on Bluesky When you share content on social media you are no longer protected by this website's privacy policy. Contact Defence Command Denmark Holmens Kanal 9 1060 Copenhagen K, Denmark Phone number: +45 7284 0000 Press contact: +45 7020 0440 Email: fko@mil.dk Contact The Ministry of Defence Agencies The Ministry of Defence Agencies The main agencies are described here: Ministry of Defence Defence Command Denmark Home Guard Danish Defence Intelligence Service Danish Ministry of Defence Acquisition and Logistics Organisation Defence Accounting Agency Danish Military Prosecution Service Data protection Cookies We use cookies to collect statistics and display feeds from social media. Below you can read about the different cookies. You can click Only necessary, or choose which ones you want to accept. You can change your consent at any time by clicking on the small cookie icon on the left side. Read more about cookies Only necessary Accept selected Accept all cookies Necessary (show details) System cookie | Necessary | Kaltura Internal statistics (show details) Siteimprove Third-party (show details) Facebook | Twitter | Google Necessary There are some cookies that are necessary for the website's system to work. If you want to completely exclude the possibility of cookies being set, you must therefore turn off cookies in your browser. Name: ASP.Net_SessionId og volumeControl_volumeValue Provider: System cookie Purpose: ASP.Net_SessionId is a cookie, which is used to identify the user's session on the web server. The session is an area on the server that can be used to store session state between http requests. Expiration: 30 days Privacy policy: Cookies Name: necessaryCookie og cookiebanner Provider: Necessary Purpose: NecessaryCookie is set to indicate acceptance of necessary cookies. Cookie banner is set to save the cookie settings. Expiration: 30 days Privacy policy: Cookies Name: volumeControl_volumeValue Provider: Kaltura Purpose: This cookie is necessary when playing video clips. Expiration: Session Privacy policy: Cookies Internal statistics Siteimprove web analytics program collects a general visitor statistics on our website. We have turned on IP anonymization. This means that your IP address is deleted immediately after it is read. Your IP address can thus neither be traced nor recreated in our system. The statistics are used exclusively in summarized form, eg to see how many visitors we have and which pages are most visited. Name: nmstat og AWSALBCORS Provider: Siteimprove Purpose: These cookies are only used during the current visit. Only non-personal information is collected about which subpages are visited. The purpose is to track how many visitors we have and which pages are most visited. Expiration: Up to 1,000 days, but often shorter depending on the browser. Privacy policy: Siteimprove privacy policy Third-party We use the share function for social media and embedded feeds, but you must be aware that you are technically leaving forsvaret.dk and are covered by the social media data policy when you use such a function. Feeds and card elements are only displayed to users who accept cookies from third parties. Name: Facebook Provider: Facebook Purpose: Expiration: 30 days Privacy policy: Cookies Name: Twitter Provider: Twitter Purpose: The purpose is to display our twitter feed on the website. Expiration: 30 days Privacy policy: Twitter privacy policy Name: Google Maps Provider: Google Purpose: The purpose is to be able to use Google Maps for map viewing. Expiration: 30 days Privacy policy: Google privacy policy Data privacy information × You now leave forsvaret.dk and go to one of our social media profiles. Be aware that you are no longer covered by our privacy policy. Cancel Continue 