 EU and Greenland strengthen partnership and engagement, backed by €200 million in EU investment --> This site uses cookies. Visit our cookies policy page or click the link in any footer for more information and to change your preferences. Accept all cookies Accept only essential cookies EN Select your language Close EU official languages bg български cs čeština da dansk de Deutsch el Ελληνικά en English es español et eesti fi suomi fr français ga Gaeilge hr hrvatski hu Magyar it Italiano lt lietuvių kalba lv latviešu valoda mt Malti nl Nederlands pl polski pt Português ro română sk slovenčina sl slovenščina sv svenska Search Search ... Home Press corner EU and Greenland strengthen partnership and engagement, backed by €200 million in EU investment Available languages: dansk Deutsch ( Maschinell übersetzte Fassung ) English français ( Traduction automatique ) Greenlandic Press release Sep 6, 2026 Nuuk 5 min read EU and Greenland strengthen partnership and engagement, backed by €200 million in EU investment Page contents Show full page table of contents Top Quote(s) Related media Related topics Print friendly pdf Contacts for media On her visit to Nuuk, the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen announced a €200 million Global Gateway Partnership Package, to be invested in and with Greenland this year and the next. The EU, Greenland and Denmark have also reinforced their partnership with a new Joint Declaration , signed in Nuuk by the President, Premier of Greenland Jens-Frederik Nielsen and Prime Minister of Denmark Mette Frederiksen. President von der Leyen said: “Greenland can count on the EU. That was my message during my last visit. Today, I am back to deliver the real results of our close cooperation. With a new EU-Greenland Partnership package, worth €200 million. This will create new opportunities and a strong and engaged EU in both Greenland and the Arctic. Because Greenland is a strategic ally and a trusted friend.” The Declaration and the investment package deepen the EU-Greenland cooperation across the board – from traditional areas, such as education and fisheries, to better satellite and cable connectivity, hydropower and critical raw materials. The package also focuses on investments that improve everyday life in the country: better housing, sustainable tourism and stronger support for small businesses. A renewed Joint Declaration between the EU, Greenland and Denmark The EU, Greenland and Denmark co-signed a new Joint Declaration on relations between the EU and Greenland to strengthen the common investment agenda, political dialogue and people-to-people exchanges, reaffirming a partnership grounded in shared values and interests. Building on the previous Declaration from 2015, the new Joint Declaration recognises Greenland's growing strategic importance and further strengthens and expands the partnership in areas of mutual interest. These include, among others, education and training, infrastructure development, sustainable raw materials, clean energy production, digital connectivity, sustainable tourism, housing, research and innovation, civil protection, resilience and security, fisheries, environment and climate action. A new Global Gateway Partnership Package The EU is mobilising a partnership package of €200 million for investments in Greenland. It will create new economic opportunities for the local population, while contributing to a sustainable, prosperous and peaceful Arctic region. A first set of Global Gateway projects in several priority sectors have already been agreed with Greenland, and we are working together on exploring a number of new investments: Digital connectivity Through the Enhanced Satellite Connectivity project for Greenland, the EU is partnering with Tusass to support the expansion of satellite capacities across Greenland through European providers over the next five years. This will improve the reliability, speed and resilience of digital connections, benefiting remote settlements, schools and businesses. This builds on the EU's ongoing support for the strengthening of digital connectivity on Greenland's west coast. In parallel, the EU is supporting feasibility work to assess whether data centres could become a viable opportunity for Greenland as the necessary energy and digital infrastructure develops. Sustainable raw materials The EU and Greenland will advance sustainable mining projects with a link to the European industry. Support will be provided through technical analysis and investor matchmaking and will contribute to stronger and more integrated and resilient value chains. This will build up on successful existing investments, such as the one in the Malmbjerg mining project. The GreenRoc's Amitsoq graphite project is another concrete example of this mutually beneficial partnership. As an EU Strategic Project under the Critical Raw Materials Act, it shows the potential for integrated Greenland–EU value chains, strengthening security of supply and supporting investment. Sustainable energy The EU will support a programme led by Greenland's national energy utility company, Nukissiorfiit, to modernise and decarbonise energy supply in remote settlements. Through the deployment of hybrid renewable energy systems in towns and settlements, the programme will strengthen the reliability of electricity supply while expanding the use of renewable energy. The EU and Greenland are also exploring support for the expansion of the Buksefjord hydropower plant, Greenland's main hydropower facility, to respond to rising electricity demand in Nuuk. Capacity building The EU will support the Government of Greenland in strengthening its institutional capacity through the establishment of a Programme Management Unit, to ensure effective delivery of relevant policy priorities as well as EU-backed programmes under the EU-Greenland Partnership. Jobs and quality of life The EU and Greenland agreed to use the remaining funding to advance preparations for several additional programmes in priority areas, notably tourism and housing. Sustainable tourism has been identified as one of the most immediate and promising opportunities for economic diversification, private sector development and job creation across Greenland. Housing is also essential to address Greenland's ageing housing stock, improve public health and the conditions for sustainable growth. Background Greenland is the largest recipient of EU support per capita among the Overseas Countries and Territories. The EU has earmarked €225 million for the period 2021-2027, with 90% dedicated to education and 10% to green growth. The Commission has proposed €530 million for Greenland under the next Multiannual Financial Framework 2028-2034, more than doubling the current level of support. The EU's partnership with Greenland is also underpinned by the Sustainable Fisheries Partnership Agreement . As a central pillar of Greenland's economy and a key area of cooperation, the EU provides €17.3 million to Greenland each year under the current fisheries protocol, including €3.2 million to support its national strategy for sustainable fisheries. The Agreement promotes the sustainable management of fish stocks, strengthens fisheries governance and contributes to economic stability in coastal communities. (will be available shortly) In addition, Greenland remains eligible for EU horizontal programmes, such as Horizon Europe , the Connecting Europe Facility , Erasmus+ , Creative Europe and InvestEU . For more information Statement by President von der Leyen Greenland partnership Greenland and the EU – Creating opportunities together Factsheet on EU-Greenland Partnership Joint Declaration Quote(s) Greenland can count on the EU. That was my message during my last visit. Today, I am back to deliver the real results of our close cooperation. With a new EU-Greenland Partnership package, worth €200 million. This will create new opportunities and a strong and engaged EU in both Greenland and the Arctic. Because Greenland is a strategic ally and a trusted friend. Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission Our partnership with Greenland is about creating opportunities that improve people's everyday lives. Better internet connections, more reliable and cleaner energy, and new economic opportunities for communities across Greenland, including in the most remote areas. At the same time, by investing together through Global Gateway, we are strengthening Europe's resilience, building trusted partnerships that benefit us all, and deepening economic ties between the EU and Greenland. Jozef Síkela, Commissioner for International Partnerships Related media © Copyright Related topics International partnerships Print friendly pdf EU and Greenland strengthen partnership and engagement, backed by €200 million in EU investment English (90.635 KB - PDF) Download Contacts for media Paula PINHO Chief Spokesperson Phone +32 2 292 08 15 Mail paula.pinho@ec.europa.eu Arianna PODESTA Deputy Chief Spokesperson Phone +32 2 298 70 24 Mail arianna.podesta@ec.europa.eu If you do not work for a media organisation, you are welcome to contact the EU through Europe Direct in writing or by calling 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11. IP/26/1800 Press corner This site is managed by the Directorate-General for Communication Contact Us Spokespersons' Service Press contacts in EU countries Europe Direct Follow us on Mastodon LinkedIn Bluesky Facebook Youtube Other networks Subscribe to news alerts About Us Directorate-General for Communication Accessibility Related sites European Commission The Commissioners Audiovisual services European Union Contact the European Commission Follow the European Commission on social media Resources for partners Report an IT vulnerability Languages on our websites Cookies Privacy policy Legal notice 