                                                       EN

                                                    ANNEX

                      MULTIANNUAL INDICATIVE PROGRAMME (MIP) 2021-2027
                           FOR EU COOPERATION WITH GREENLAND

1) The overall lines of the EU’s cooperation with Greenland

Strategically located between the North Atlantic and Arctic Ocean, Greenland is, as part of the Kingdom of
Denmark, an Overseas Territory associated with the EU. It is the world’s largest island (20% of the total EU
surface). With a population of around 56,000 people, it has globally the lowest population density (one
inhabitant per 35 km2). Dramatic exposure to climate change (the ice sheet is melting at the fastest rate of the
last 120 centuries) and a lack of economic diversification (strong dependency on fisheries and the public sector),
pose both immediate and long-term challenges for Greenland’s sustainable development.

EU cooperation with Greenland is framed by Part IV of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union
(TFEU) and by Council Decision (EU) 2021/1764 of 5 October 2021 on the Association of the Overseas
Countries and Territories with the European Union including relations between the European Union on the one
hand, and Greenland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the other (Decision on the Overseas Association
including Greenland, DOAG)1. Article 198 TFEU emphasises that the association shall ‘promote the economic
and social development of the countries and territories and establish close economic relations between them and
the Union as a whole’. Part II of Decision (EU) 2021/1764defines the areas for cooperation for the Overseas
Countries and Territories’ (OCTs) sustainable development in the framework of the Association. The recently
published Joint communication “A stronger EU engagement for a peaceful, sustainable and prosperous Arctic”2
calls for a further strengthening and deepening of the partnership between the European Commission and the
Government of Greenland, including through cooperation and dialogue in areas of common interest. In parallel,
plans to set up a European Commission office in Nuuk are advancing, as mentioned in the new Arctic policy.

Over the past years, the cooperation under the DOAG has been almost exclusively focused on human
development through a significant contribution to the education policy implemented by the Government of
Greenland. Recently, new ways of cooperation were agreed between the EU and Greenland to support private
sector development, Arctic processes according to Greenland’s mandate and evidenced based policy
formulation on topics to be jointly identified.

Apart from the DOAG, on 8 January 2021, the EU and Greenland concluded negotiations for a new Sustainable
Fisheries Partnership Agreement (SFPA) and a new Protocol that will strengthen their cooperation in the
fisheries sector for the next four years with the possibility of a two-year extension. This agreement forms an
integral part of the EU-Greenland partnership. Also, Greenland benefits from activities funded under several
EU programmes to which OCTs are eligible on themes of mutual interest (higher education, research,
environment, etc.).


1.1 Basis for programming

The 2009 Act of Greenland Self-Government determines its status as a widely self-governing territory within
the Kingdom of Denmark. It defines where Greenland can take over legislative and executive powers, while
Denmark remains responsible for defence, foreign affairs and internal security. Key priorities for Greenland are
to expand sustainable socio-economic opportunities for its population, to protect the environment and
biodiversity, and to foster self-reliance and resilience of Greenland in general.




1
    OJ L 355, 7.10.2021, p. 6
2
    JOIN (2021)27 final 13.10.21

                                                        1
A number of Greenlandic sector policy documents inform the programming:

     (i) Key policies for education cooperation: the Greenland Education Programme (GEP) covers the
     period until 2024. The GEP has been the backbone of the EU-Greenland cooperation since 2007. Currently
     in phase II, it comprises the Education Strategy 2015 and the annually updated Education Plan II. This
     policy is complemented by the Greenlandic employment strategy which promotes a better match between
     job skills and evolving labour market demands, which runs from 2021 to 2023 and has strong linkages to
     education policies. The Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports and Church is currently working on a new
     strategy for education, which should also serve as the centrepiece of renewed EU-Greenland education
     cooperation.

     (ii) Key policies for the diversification of the economy: the sectoral plan for energy and water supply
     of 2017 is a prime enabler for sustainable economic growth. It sets out main lines of action and priorities
     for the public supply of electricity and water by 2030. This entails a strong push towards expanding
     renewable energy. Knowledge and nature policies are equally fostering sustainable economic
     diversification and address global challenges. The research policy statement and action plan describes
     targets for research in Greenland to support the sustainable development of the country’s resources, and
     engage in solving challenges in the community. The Greenland Research Council has been set up in 2014
     and an International Arctic Hub was initiated in 2020 as a platform for Greenlandic, Danish, and
     international stakeholders to benefit the Greenlandic society and international Arctic science. The
     International Arctic Hub creates value through communication, as well as generating increased insight,
     knowledge and sense of ownership of the research being done at educational institutions to decision
     makers, businesses, citizens and other stakeholders. Greenland’s Biodiversity Strategy 2030, published in
     2021, aims to sustainably balance ecological needs and preservation with economic aspirations. It will run
     until 2030. Besides these strategies, there are important strategies for the agriculture sector, a waste
     management plan and a strategy for export of ice and water in place as building blocks for sustainable
     economic diversification.

     (iii) Cross-cuttingly, public finance management action plans serve the overall objective of the
     Government of Greenland to enhance the effective and efficient implementation of public policies in the
     territory.


1.2 Priority areas of the EU’s cooperation with Greenland

The proposed future priority areas are as follows:

a) Education: Since 2007, the EU has been supporting the education sector in Greenland mainly through
   budget support. The overall objective was to contribute to a higher standard of living through improved
   education, skills development and knowledge, in view of equipping Greenland with a better qualified and
   more competitive workforce. A well-educated and skilled labour force helps reduce the economic
   dependence on few sectors and is a prerequisite for development, inclusive growth in emerging sectors and
   a sustainable economy at a local level. This rationale continues to be pertinent for Greenland’s
   development. Therefore, the Government of Greenland strongly advocated to maintain education as the
   priority sector of the 2021-2027 cooperation.

b) Green growth: the policy dialogue of the EU with Greenland revealed the need and mutual interest to
   broaden the cooperation to other priority areas. This will allow to more holistically and strategically engage
   with the territory and support it in its quest to sustainably diversify the economy against a backdrop of
   global challenges such as climate change, biodiversity loss and the COVID-19 pandemic. A broadened
   engagement will complement education partnership of the EU with the territory. An approach towards green
   growth is also part of the 2021 coalition agreement of the new Government of Greenland3 This agreement
   is based on principles of solidarity, stability, and growth and expresses, among other things, a desire to
   increase renewable energy. That is why Greenland is keen to pursue a green growth path and to address


3
 Coalition agreement (in Danish): https://naalakkersuisut.gl/da/Naalakkersuisut/Koalitionsaftale

                                                            2
global challenges. Sustainable energy, as well as environment, climate and research have been identified as
promising avenues for the EU to support additional areas of common interest; very much in line with the
strategic objectives of Decision (EU) 2021/1764 (DOAG) and Commission priorities in particular the green
deal, digitalisation and sustainable growth.




                                                  3
1.3 Justification and context, including linkages with Decision (EU) 2021/1764, EU policies and
sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)

Education: As evidenced by an external evaluation in May 2018, the EU support to the Greenlandic education
sector has contributed to raising education levels in the territory and to laying the foundations for further
improvements. The Government of Greenland’s dedication to better education and training for its citizens has
been reflected by an increased share in the budget from 14.8% in 2005 to 25% (estimated allocation) in 2020.
During the EU’s previous budget support programme for education, important progress has been achieved such
as an increased rate of pre-school attendance (76% by 2019 compared to 69% in 2013) and an increased rate of
transitions back into education or training after drop-out (from 41.5% in 2013 to 45.1% in 2019). While vocational
education and training (VET) completion rates have increased from 48.5% in 2014 to 53.0% in 2019 at the same
time the high school completion rate has, however, dropped from 56.3% in 2014 to 47.9% in 2019.
Nevertheless, these levels are still low and there is still a long way to go before the educational system is
substantially improved. A rigorous implementation of policy goals, building on important achievements also
through the ongoing public financial management reform will be key. This includes in particular to further
enhance the quality of elementary education4 and efficiency of the education system, to further reduce drop-out
rates of students and to increase the number of pupils that continue education after elementary school5. Hence,
a continued EU support to education is widely called for by the Government of Greenland and, indeed, highly
relevant and coherent with EU priorities and in particular the priority on human development and the 10%
political target for cooperation in education. Education is one of the policy priorities listed in Article 5 of
Decision (EU) 2021/1764 (DOAG). SDG 4 plays a central role in Agenda 2030 also as a catalyst for achieving
other SDGs.

Green growth: The new joint communication on the Arctic calls for increased cooperation with Greenland
specifically and for increased support to sustainable economic growth, connectivity, research, and responsible
use of raw materials in the Arctic region,6 EU support to green, diversified and sustainable growth of the
Greenlandic economy is critically relevant for the development of the territory, mutually beneficial and is also
informed by the renewed EU strategic priorities in the Arctic region. Green growth is impacted by a variety of
themes such as climate change, biodiversity, and research to name a few strategic ones. Issues such as mineral
resources, connectivity and Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) support – if taking into consideration
environmental and climate risks – are key for working towards a diversified economy. Two major emerging
sectors for collaboration are (i) promoting sustainable energy and (ii) environment, climate and research.
Sustainable economic diversification is a top priority listed in Article 5 of Decision (EU) 2021/1764 (DOAG).
As renewable energy can be produced at a relatively competitive price through hydropower, Greenland is well-
suited for further enhancing its transition to renewable energy (representing currently 70% of its public energy
supply) and for energy-intensive processes such as the production of clean hydrogen. The Government of
Greenland has set out to further increase its hydropower capacity. This creates investment opportunities in line
with Greenland’s and the EU’s priorities, and which can be supported by measures to support the Government’s
capacity to deliver on its policy commitments, to improve the investment climate and negotiate with new
partners as well as promote investments – consistent with green investment taxonomy – through the relevant
means and instruments.
Similarly, natural riches are part of Greenland’s key assets to diversify its economy. This includes mineral
resources such as rare earth elements, which represent an important opportunity to make Greenland’s economy
less dependent on fisheries. By joining the European Raw Material Alliance (ERMA) in 2021, Greenland
committed the sustainable development of these resources and to the protection of nature. ERMA was
established in September 2020 as a multi-stakeholder platform contributing to ensure a reliable, secure and
sustainable access to raw materials for the EU. The EU stands ready to support an environmentally-friendly
development of the raw materials value chains in Greenland, such as through technical assistance to government
authorities.
In order to ensure the preservation of biodiversity, dissemination of information and a community-based
approach are important catalysts. This effort is in continuation and can build on EU-funded research in
collaboration with local communities on the impact of climate change in the Arctic. Interlinking with the first
priority area, the green diversification of the economy will pose both a challenge and an opportunity for

4
  Elementary schooling currently comprises 10 years of schooling (6-16).
5
  Presently only every second student continues formal education after elementary school.
6
  JOIN (2021)27 final 13.10.2021

                                                           4
education, as it will create attractive job opportunities requiring students to stay in school/training, and at the
same time necessitating the education system to provide the proper skills. The priority area green growth will
contributes importantly to Agenda 2030 notably SDG 7 (clean and affordable energy), SDG 8 (decent work and
economic growth), 13 (climate action); 14 and 15 (life in water and on land).

Cross cutting themes: Inclusion of actions on digitalisation has great potential for both priority areas, as they
can render the education sector more efficient and boosting green growth. Through a rights-based approach, the
cooperation programmes will actively contribute to mainstream gender and equal opportunities for both sexes
in its activities. Particular attention will be given to the needs of youth.


1.4 Duration of the MIP and option for synchronisation

This MIP covers the period 2021-2027. In principle no mid-term review is foreseen but an ad-hoc mid-term
review can be undertaken in case of needs (Article 82 of Decision (EU) 2021/1764, DOAG). During the course
of this period, a number of Greenlandic strategies and policies will be subject to review. Greenland’s education
policy 2014-2024 is presently under review by the Greenlandic authorities in view of updating it by the end of
2021. The energy strategy of 2017 may be reassessed by the new Government. Hence, the present MIP comes
at an opportune moment to further synchronise EU cooperation with Greenlandic policy developments.

2) EU support per priority area

2.1 Priority area 1: Education

Education will remain the centre piece of the EU-Greenland cooperation with the goal to sustainably deepen
and broaden progress in terms of education quality, equity and efficiency. Proper coordination amongst all
stakeholders involved and strategic depth of subsequent educational initiatives will be crucial to achieve this
goal and should be well informed by the Greenlandic ambition of diversifying its economy.

2.1.1 Specific Objectives (SO)

SO1 – Increasing the quality of the Greenlandic education system to foster productive lives, wellbeing and
resilience of the society.
SO2 – Reducing the inequality in the Greenlandic education system to boost cohesion of the society.
SO3 – Augmenting the efficiency in the Greenlandic education system.

2.1.2 Expected results (ER) per specific objective

For this MIP, expected results and outputs have been identified under each of the specific objectives identified
above. These are tabulated below:

              Specific objective                                         Expected results
 SO1 – Increasing the quality of the             ER 1 – Improved learning outcomes and skills for pupils and
 Greenlandic education system to foster          students
 productive lives, wellbeing and resilience
 of the society.
 SO2 – Reducing the inequality in the            ER 2 – Increased share of pupils and students complete their
 Greenlandic education system to boost           education
 cohesion of the society.
 SO3 – Augmenting the efficiency in the          ER 3 – Reduced number of drop-outs between stages in the
 Greenlandic education system.                   education system and enhanced cost-benefit of the education
                                                 system.




                                                        5
2.1.3 Indicators (including baseline and targets), per expected result

       Expected |Result                      Base Line Indicators                             Targets
 ER 1 – Improved learning         7th grade test result in Danish, Greenlandic   2027: score of 59
 outcomes and skills for          and Math
 pupils and students.             2020: score of 53
 ER 2 – Increased share of        Completion rate in high school (upper          2027: 60% of students
 pupils and students complete     secondary)
 their education.                 2019: 47.9%
                                                                                 2027: 65% of students
                                  Completion rate in VET
                                  2019: 53%
 ER3 – Reduced number of          Share of 18-year-olds having completed         2027: 40%
 drop-outs between stages in      their education or still active in education
 the education system and         (including boarding schools)
 enhanced cost-benefit of the     2019: 37.7%
 education system.


2.1.4 Risks in the education priority area

               Risks                Risk level (H/M/L)                Mitigating measures
 1. Efficient use of budgetary              M          Policy dialogue on public financial management
 resources allocated to the                            reform for a cost- efficient education sector.
 education sector.

 2. Sufficient numbers of                    M              Teachers retiring are replaced by teachers with
 qualified teachers remain                                  adequate professional qualifications.
 available in the Greenlandic                               Information campaigns and parent engagement.
 school system.
 3. Parents and students not                 M              Information campaigns, parents engagement (e.g.
 sufficiently aware of the                                  through teacher-parents associations), continued
 benefits of good formal                                    research on the benefits of formal education.
 education.


2.2 Priority area 2: Green Growth

Both the EU and Greenland have a mutual interest to broaden the engagement beyond the longstanding
education and fisheries cooperation and to make the partnership more strategic. Two sectors have been identified
under priority area 2 as most strategic and promising for an expanded cooperation. This should be further
reinforced by cooperation in priority area 1 to address the educational challenge of scaling up the necessary skill
base in Greenland to enable and facilitate the aspirations with regard to green energy, climate action and bio
diversity protection and restauration.


2.2.1 Specific Objectives

SO 1 – Increasing the use of sustainable energy for a diversified economy
SO 2 – Supporting Greenland’s biodiversity, climate action and research, and other relevant Green Growth
issues




                                                        6
2.2.2 Expected results per specific objective

For this MIP, expected results and outputs have been identified under each of the specific objectives identified
above. These are tabulated below:

              Specific objective                                         Expected results
 SO 1 – Increasing the use of sustainable         ER 1.1 Updated sustainable energy policy and action plan
 energy for a diversified economy
                                                  ER 1.2 Reduced man-made greenhouse gases

 SO 2 – Supporting Greenland’s                    ER 2.1 Capacity of research, monitoring and implementation
 biodiversity, climate action and research        on biodiversity and climate change in Greenland strengthened
 and other relevant Green Growth issues
                                                  ER 2.2 Enhanced communication and dissemination on
                                                  biodiversity and sustainability at community level in
                                                  Greenland


2.2.3 Indicators (including baseline and targets), per expected result

       Expected |Result                      Base Line Indicators                           Targets
 ER 1.1 Updated sustainable        Status of sustainable energy policy and      New sustainable energy policy
 energy policy and action          action plan                                  and action plan by 2023.
 plan

 ER 1.2 Reduced man-made           Percentage of public energy supply           90% of public energy supply
 greenhouse gases                  through renewable energy                     through renewable energy by
                                                                                2027
 ER 2.1 – Capacity of              Number of scientific dialogues/outreach      2027: To be determined
 research and monitoring on        events/seminars/research missions
 biodiversity and climate          facilitated or coordinated by the
 change in Greenland               International Arctic Hub (or equivalent
 strengthened.                     coordinating mechanism)
                                   2020: To be established

 ER 2.2. – Enhanced                Number of communication/awareness            2027: 3
 communication and                 raising campaigns on biodiversity,
 dissemination on                  sustainability and climate action per year
 biodiversity and                  2021: 2
 sustainability at community
 level in Greenland


2.2.4 Risks in the economic diversification and global challenges priority area

               Risks                Risk level (H/M/L)                     Mitigating measures
 1. Strategies of the territory                              Policy Dialogue
 relevant for the priority area              M               Support measures
 are not being adequately                                    Monitoring
 implemented.
 2. To garner sufficient                     M               Policy Dialogue
 investment for the energy                                   Mobilise investment instruments
 sector in Greenland.                                        EU Hydrogen Strategy
                                                             Research



                                                         7
 3. Biodiversity loss continues              H              Information campaigns
                                                            Implementation of the UN Convention on
                                                            Biodiversity
                                                            Support implementation of regulation and actions
                                                            aimed at preserving biodiversity
 4. Economic diversification                 M              Evaluation of potential projects prior to
 results in increased                                       implementation.
 environmental damage.                                      No funding of actions with such potential
                                                            outcomes.


3)   Complementarity with EU/Member States’ initiatives in the proposed priority area

3.1 Integrated European initiatives

Decision (EU) 2021/1764 (DOAG) foresees that OCTs are eligible for other EU programmes and instruments
provided for by the EU’s as a support to implement its priority policies. Complementary support could therefore
come through demand-driven EU programmes such as ERASMUS+ (to which Greenlandic students have full
access) in the field of education, and through LIFE and Horizon Europe in the priority area of environment,
biodiversity and green growth, as examples. Coordination with activities that may be funded under those
programmes will be important to ensure synergies.

Equally, coordinated approaches with the Member State to which Greenland is linked, the Kingdom of
Denmark, will be important and explored during the implementation of this MIP. Enhanced coordination and
synergy with activities supported by Denmark will be looked for, with interesting potential in particular in the
second priority area proposed above. Also, synergies with for example the INTERREG programmes such as the
Northern Periphery and Arctic Programme, in which Greenland participates will be explored during the
implementation of this MIP.


3.2 Support measures

Technical assistance (TA) is foreseen through demand-driven facilities to mobilise EU technical expertise. TA
could cover eligibility assessments regarding sectoral budget support, assessment of the eligibility criteria for
tranche payments, public financial management cooperation, visibility and communication, and supporting the
evaluations and audits of the European Union cooperation. Specific initiatives targeting organisations working
with youth will be considered. Additionally, based on the ongoing Capacity Facility project and if the results
prove to be conclusive and useful, the experience could be replicated under the resources of this MIP. Where
appropriate, twinning or Technical Assistance and Information Exchange (TAIEX) measures or any further
technical support could be envisaged in fields foreseen in this MIP or of joint interest in the policy dialogue and
in the perspective for future cooperation, such as, for example, connectivity or raw material.

Communication and visibility activities carried out under the programme shall be implemented in accordance
with the EU communication and visibility requirements in force. This shall include the Communication and
Visibility Plan of the Action and the appropriate contractual obligations.


3.3 Support to investments

Greenland will be eligible to InvestEU during 2021-2027. Concrete investment opportunities will need to be
explored further with the Government of Greenland, with the support of the Government of Denmark, the
European Investment Bank and other European Financial Institutions as well as the private sector. For example,
sustainable energy, digitalisation and critical raw materials may, in this perspective, require significant
investments.




                                                        8
4) Financial overview

Decision (EU) 2021/1764 (DOAG) foresees a financial envelope for Greenland of EUR 225 million. The
proposed distribution of this territorial allocation between the proposed priority areas is as follows:

                                                                M€                            %
Education                                                      202.5                          90
Green Growth                                                    22.5                          10
Total                                                           225                          100

Support measures not directly linked to a sector will be financed from the DOAG technical cooperation facility
established by Decision (EU) 2021/1764.




                                                      9
Appendix: Intervention framework


Priority area 1: Education
Specific objective 1: Increasing the quality of the Greenlandic education system to foster productive lives,
wellbeing and resilience of the society.

Expected Results                      Indicators                         Baseline &        Means of
                                                                         targets           verification
ER 1- Improved learning               a1) 7th grade test result in       2020: score 53    Annual
outcomes and skills for pupils and    Danish, Greenlandic and Math       2027: score 59    Implementation
students.                                                                                  Reports of the
                                                                                           Government of
                                                                                           Greenland
Specific objective 2: Reducing the inequality in the Greenlandic education system to boost cohesion of the
society.
Expected Results                      Indicators                         Baseline &        Means of
                                                                         targets           verification
ER 2 - Increased share of pupils      b1) Completion rate in high        2019: 47.9% of    Annual
and students complete their           school                             students          Implementation
education.                                                               2027: 60% of      Reports of the
                                                                         students          Government of
                                                                                           Greenland
                                      b2) Completion rate in VET         2019: 53% of
                                                                         students
                                                                         2027: 60% of
                                                                         students
Specific objective 3: Augmenting the efficiency in the Greenlandic education system
Expected Results                      Indicators                         Baseline &        Means of
                                                                         targets           verification
ER 3 – Reduced number of drop-        c1) Share of 18-year-olds having   2019:37.7% of     Annual
outs between stages in the            completed their education or       student cohort    Implementation
education system and enhanced         still active in education          2027: 40% of      Reports of the
cost-benefit of the education         (including boarding schools)       student cohort    Government of
system.                                                                                    Greenland




                                                     10
Priority area 2: Green growth
Specific objective 1: Increasing the use of sustainable energy for a diversified economy
Expected Results                     Indicators                         Baseline &           Means of
                                                                        targets              verification
ER 1.1 Updated sustainable           a1) Status of sustainable energy   2021: not            Government of
energy policy and action plan        policy and action plan             foreseen             Greenland,
                                                                        2023:achieved        Energy
                                                                                             Department
ER 1.2 Reduced greenhouse gas         b1) Percentage of public energy   2020: 70%,           Government of
emissions from the energy sector     supply through renewable           2027: 90%            Greenland,
                                     energy                                                  Energy
                                                                                             Department
Specific objective 2: Supporting Greenland’s biodiversity, climate action and research and other Green
Growth issues
Expected Results                 Indicators                         Baseline &          Means of
                                                                    targets             verification
ER 2.1 – Capacity of research and    a1) Number of scientific           2020: baseline to    Government of
monitoring on biodiversity and       dialogues/outreach                 be established       Greenland,
climate change in Greenland          events/seminars/research           2027: target to be   Ministry for
strengthened.                        missions facilitated by the        determined           Education,
                                     International Arctic Hub (or                            Culture, Sports
                                     equivalent coordinating                                 and Church
                                     mechanism) per year
ER 2.2. – Enhanced                   b1) Number of                      2020: 2              Government of
communication and dissemination      communication/awareness            2027: 3              Greenland,
on biodiversity and sustainability   raising campaigns on                                    Nature
at community level in Greenland      biodiversity, sustainability and                        Department
                                     climate action per year




                                                     11
