     MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION
    AND THE GOVERNMENT OF GREENLAND ON A STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP
             ON SUSTAINABLE RAW MATERIALS VALUE CHAINS


                                                             I. Introduction

                                                                 Objective


The Government of Greenland (hereinafter "Greenland", unless otherwise apparent from the
context) and the European Union (hereinafter the "EU") (jointly hereinafter the "Sides") wish
to establish a strategic partnership (hereinafter the "Partnership") to deepen cooperation with
the aim of achieving closer integration of sustainable value chains for metals and minerals
(hereinafter "Raw Materials").


The Sides recognise that securing a sustainable supply of Raw Materials, especially critical
Raw Materials as defined in the EU's current or future definitions (hereinafter "CRM"), is an
essential prerequisite for delivering on EU's green and digital transition objectives and
represents an enabling factor for decarbonising energy production and mobility ecosystems.
Furthermore, CRM and other Raw Materials are in increasing demand in most key industrial
ecosystems.1 Therefore, mitigating possible supply disruptions will strengthen open strategic
autonomy, build resilient industries and preserve EU's global competitiveness.


The high resource potential for CRM and other Raw Materials in Greenland combined with
EU's demand for minerals and expertise in prospecting, exploration, extraction, processing
and refining, makes a solid base for the Partnership and supports the development of
Greenland's mineral resource sector as a future supplier of CRM and other Raw Materials to
the EU.


                                                           Political Context


Hence, it is in the interests of both Sides to continue building further on the positive and long-
term cooperation and integration within the Partnership agenda and the Side's respective
competences and practices that may develop. Greenland is associated with the EU in
accordance with Articles 198 – 204 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union
(TFEU) and the EU places great importance in the sustainable development of Greenland and
the Arctic region. In developing the close and lasting links between Greenland and the EU,
several important acts, alliances and strategies, are taken into account, namely:




1
    Supply chain analysis and material demand forecast in strategic technologies and sectors in the EU - A foresight study (2023)


                                                                        1
a.      The Decision on the Overseas Association, including Greenland (2021),2 which
        provides a political frame, preferential trade relations, a substantial and dedicated
        financial cooperation with Greenland as well as access to horizontal EU programmes
        with specific provisions for cooperation in the field of sustainable Raw Materials.
b.      Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a
        framework for ensuring a secure and sustainable supply of critical raw materials and
        amending Regulations (EU) 168/2013, (EU) 2018/858, 2018/1724 and (EU) 2019/1020;
        Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the
        European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions: A secure
        and sustainable supply of critical raw materials in support of the twin transition (2023).3
c.      Joint Communication to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic
        and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions: A stronger EU engagement
        for a peaceful, sustainable and prosperous Arctic (2021),4 supporting strategic
        partnerships with resource-rich third countries on sustainable and responsible Raw
        Materials.
d.      Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the
        European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions: Critical
        Raw Materials Resilience: Charting a Path towards greater Security and Sustainability
        (2020),5 with a dedicated commitment (Action 9) on developing strategic partnerships
        with resources-rich countries like Greenland.
e.      The European Raw Materials Alliance (2020).
f.      Joint Communication to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic
        and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the European Investment
        Bank: The Global Gateway (2021),6 aiming at delivering sustainable and high-quality
        infrastructural projects, considering the needs of partner countries and ensuring lasting
        benefits for local communities. The intention is to attract investment involving EU's
        leading industry, private sector knowledge and investment capacity.
g.      Joint Communication to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic
        and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions: EU external energy
        engagement in a changing world (2022).7 A part of the REPowerEU package reinforces
        the need for establishing mutually beneficial Raw Materials value chain partnerships.
h.      Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the European
        Council, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee
        of the Regions: The European Green Deal (2019).8
i.      Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the
        European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions: Shaping
        Europe's digital future (2020).9
j.      The Act No. 473 of 12 June 2009 on Greenland Self-Government.
2
  Council Decision (EU) 2021/1764 of 5 October 2021 on the association of the Overseas Countries and Territories with the European Union
  including relations between the European Union on the one hand, and Greenland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the other (Decision on
  the Overseas Association, including Greenland)
3
  COM (2023) 160 final. Proposal for a Regulation Secure and sustainable supply of critical raw materials. COM (2023) 165 final.
  Communication Secure and sustainable supply of critical raw materials
4
  JOIN (2021) 27 final. Joint Communication on the Arctic
5
  COM (2020) 474. Communication Critical Raw Materials Resilience: Charting a Path towards greater Security and Sustainability
6
  JOIN (2021) 30 final. Communication Global Gateway
7
  JOIN (2022) 23 final Joint Communication EU external energy engagement in a changing world
8
  COM (2019) 640 final. Communication European Green Deal
9
  COM (2020) 67 final. Communication Shaping Europe's digital future


                                                                   2
k.   The Mineral Resources Act of Greenland (2009).
l.   Greenland Parliament Act on Mineral Activities (2023).
m.   Greenland's Minerals Strategy, 2020-2024 (2020).


New and updated acts, alliances and strategies are expected.


Each Side acknowledges the legislation of the other Side, including a ban on prospecting,
exploration and exploitation of one or more elements including uranium and a ban on
exploitation of ore with a content above a specific threshold of one or more elements
including uranium.


                     II. Scope of the Partnership and Areas Covered


The Sides agree on that the Partnership concerns Raw Materials along the entire value chain
from prospecting to end product, with special focus on prospecting, exploration, extraction,
processing and refining of CRM.


The Partnership should be established around five main pillars:


1.   Economic and industrial integration of value chains for CRM and other Raw Materials.
     This includes:

     a.    envisaging to strengthen networks between industry and other stakeholders in
           Greenland and the EU;
     b.    identifying and developing projects and business models through the entire value
           chains;
     c.    attracting investments and supporting access to finance for these projects by
           cooperating in the field of mobilisation of financial and investment instruments;
     d.    developing an internationally competitive mineral resources industry in Greenland
           for prospecting, exploration, extraction, processing and refining of Raw Materials
           to support refining and manufacturing of semi-finished and end products in the
           EU;
     e.    developing open, fair and competitive markets for CRM and other Raw Materials
           allowing the EU to diversify its supply for its green and digital transition and open
           strategic autonomy and
     f.    maintaining a dialogue to ensure the well-functioning and resilience of the Raw
           Materials value chains and trade and investment linkages by: (i) enhancing the
           transparency and dissemination of information on measures related to
           investments, operations and trade; (ii) enhancing efforts to implement trade and
           investment facilitating measures; (iii) discussing at an early stage any concerns of
           disruptions of supply chains reported by the industry and possible mitigation


                                              3
                   measures to be taken by the Sides and (iv) discussing at an early stage any
                   concerns of distortion of bilateral trade and investment.

2.         Cooperation to leverage high international environmental, social and governance
           (hereinafter "ESG") standards. This includes:

           a.      taking forward the sustainable exploitation of mineral resources in Greenland, in
                   line with high ESG standards throughout the Raw Materials value chains. The
                   legislative framework in Greenland requires among other matters that the
                   environmental and social impact shall be assessed to assure high international
                   standards. Planning, implementation, execution and monitoring of a mining
                   project must be in close dialogue with the Greenlandic society, including
                   individuals, organisations, enterprises and other stakeholders. Greenland's mineral
                   sector shall be a lever for a sustainable and inclusive economic growth with local
                   and domestic value creation and
           b.      applying high ESG standards as required in relevant legislation, agreements,
                   guidelines and best practices for refining and manufacturing of semi-finished and
                   end products in the EU.

3.         Deployment of infrastructure for Raw Materials projects development. This includes:

           a.      taking into consideration that: (i) Greenland's transport infrastructure is based on
                   seaways created by deep fjords and the surrounding sea and airways instead of
                   railways and roadways; (ii) infrastructure for electricity, water and
                   communication must generally be established by the mining company and (iii)
                   subject to Arctic or subarctic conditions, the geography provides opportunities for
                   different types of renewable energy and
           b.      supporting the mobilisation of funding for development of infrastructure for
                   electricity, water and communication for CRM and other Raw Materials
                   extraction, processing and refining projects.

4.         Strengthen capacities and skills development along Raw Materials value chains.
           Examples include:

           a.      developing skills at all levels in the Raw Materials industry and wider society.

5.         Cooperation on research and innovation for prospecting, exploration, extraction,
           processing and refining of Raw Materials and supporting areas. Examples include:

           a.      taking into consideration that Greenland is eligible for participation in the EU
                   Framework Programme for Research and Innovation10 and




10
     C(2022) 8600 final. Commission implementing decision Horizon Europe


                                                                   4
           b.      making use of Earth Observation Data and Copernicus11 with relevance for
                   mineral exploration, mapping of deposits, monitoring of mining including waste
                   management and monitoring of environmental impact.

                                            III. Principles of the Partnership


The Partnership should be conducted fully in concordance with the Decision on the Overseas
Association, including Greenland.


The Partnership should be open and inclusive, ensuring a strong multi-level public-private
partnership with the participation of representatives of industry, finance and business
associations from both Sides; ministries of interested EU Member States and Greenland
within mineral resources, environment, finance, trade and energy; and social partners, public
organisations and interested scientific, technical and educational institutions.


The Sides reaffirm that the Partnership takes into account the objectives of trade and trade-
related cooperation set out in the Decision on the Overseas Association, including Greenland:
(i) to promote the economic and social development of the countries and territories of the
Decision on the Overseas Association, including Greenland (hereinafter "OCT, including
Greenland") by establishing close economic relations between the OCT, including Greenland
and the EU; (ii) to stimulate the OCT, including Greenland's effective integration in the
regional and world economies and the development of trade in goods and services; (iii) to
promote the stability, integrity and transparency of the global financial system and good
governance in the area of tax and (iv) to support the OCT, including Greenland's capacities to
formulate and implement policies necessary for the development of trade in goods and
services.


These objectives in the Decision on the Overseas Association, including Greenland are
reflected in particular in the following set of articles relevant to the scope of this Partnership:
Article 47 Non-discrimination; Article 52 Most favourable treatment; Articles 53, 54, 55 and
58 Trade and sustainable development; Article 59 Current payments and capital movements;
Article 60 Competition policies and Article 61 Protection of intellectual property rights, and
will be supported by transparent digital management and governance infrastructure.


The Sides intend to promote the active participation of relevant stakeholders in the European
Raw Materials Alliance (ERMA) as a platform for cooperation and development of
investment projects.




11
     Copernicus is the Earth observation component of the European Union's Space programme


                                                                    5
The Sides should encourage cooperation between market participants, professional
associations, financial and scientific institutions and civil society related to prospecting,
exploration, extraction, processing, refining and manufacturing of semi-finished and end
products.


                 IV. Implementation and Monitoring of the Partnership


Within 6 months from the signature of this memorandum of understanding, the Sides intend to
develop a strategic partnership roadmap (hereinafter the "Roadmap"). The Roadmap should
identify concrete actions for cooperation agreed by the Sides along the five pillars identified
above as well as the corresponding working arrangements.


The Sides intend to create a dedicated working group (hereinafter the "Working Group")
consisting of senior officials as specified in the Roadmap, where any matters of relevance to
the Partnership's implementation would be discussed. The Sides envisage meetings of the
Working Group at least twice per year.


The Sides intend to organise a regular annual ministerial level meeting to take stock of the
Partnership progress, discuss possible new strategic collaboration directions and endorse the
Roadmap for the upcoming period.


The Sides also envisage making use of other existing formats, such as the Raw Materials
Supply Group (RMSG) and the European Raw Materials Alliance (ERMA) for regular and
more frequent exchange of information of relevance to the Partnership.


                                         V. Format


Greenland signs this memorandum of understanding pursuant to Act No. 473 of 12 June 2009
on Greenland Self-Government.


The memorandum of understanding does not create any rights or obligations under
international or domestic law. Moreover, nothing in this memorandum of understanding
represents a commitment of financing on the part of either Side.


Furthermore, this memorandum of understanding does not intend to represent any
commitment from either Side to give preferential treatment to the other Side in any matter
contemplated herein or otherwise.




                                              6
The activities described in this memorandum of understanding should commence on the day
after it has been signed by both Sides.



                    Signed in Brussels on the _____ November 2023
       in six original copies, two in Greenlandic, two in Danish and two in English.



        For the European Union                     For the Government of Greenland




             Maroš Šefčovič                               Naaja H. Nathanielsen
        Executive Vice-President                   Minister of Business, Trade, Mineral
                                                  Resources, Justice and Gender Equality




                                              7
