Truth Details | Truth Social
Opens in a new window
Opens an external website
Opens an external website in a new window
<!---->Close this consent banner<!---->
 This website utilizes technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well as for analytics, personalization, and targeted advertising. To learn more, view the following link:  
Privacy Policy
 Manage Preferences 
 Storage Preferences 
<!----><!---->
To use this website, please enable JavaScript.
Home
Home
Back
Truth Details
7145 replies
Donald J. Trump
Verified Account
Truth+ Premium
@realDonaldTrump
Based upon a very productive meeting that I have had with the Secretary General of NATO, Mark Rutte, we have formed the framework of a future deal with respect to Greenland and, in fact, the entire Arctic Region. This solution, if consummated, will be a great one for the United States of America, and all NATO Nations. Based upon this understanding, I will not be imposing the Tariffs that were scheduled to go into effect on February 1st. Additional discussions are being held concerning The Golden Dome as it pertains to Greenland. Further information will be made available as discussions progress. Vice President JD Vance, Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Special Envoy Steve Witkoff, and various others, as needed, will be responsible for the negotiations — They will report directly to me. Thank you for your attention to this matter!
DONALD J. TRUMP
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
13.8k
ReTruths
60.1k
Likes
Jan 21, 2026, 2:27 PM
Continue the conversation
Sign up now to create your personalized experience.
Create Account
Sign In
New to Truth?
Join Truth Social to get the full story and details.
Create Account
Sign In
Get Truth+
30+ premium networks, on-demand content, 24/7 streaming.
7-day free trial
Live
The Charlie Kirk Show
Real America's Voice
John Bachman Now
Newsmax 2
Drug Running & Arms Smuggling: Real Story of American Made
Reelz TV
Help Center
Legal
Cookie Preferences
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Proudly made in the United States of America. 
🇺🇸